http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/01/automobiles/01DESIGN.html?ex=1333080000&en=177705ec60b718dc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Body Language: How to Talk the Designers&#8217; Talk - Language: How to Talk the Designers’ Talk 1, 2007 NEVER say dashboard, not if you want people at the auto show to think you know what you are talking about. Say I.P., for instrument panel, as designers do. Skip to next paragraph Dropping in a mention of the greenhouse or the beltline is pretty easy, but you will really get points with casual references to A-, B-, and C-pillars, the order of the roof supports arranged from the windshield, whose base is called the cowl, to the rear window, or backlight. You might say, “That fat C-pillar would make it impossible to parallel park.” Every profession has its lingo. A list of common terms — and a few of the most colorful ones — can come in handy. With cars, words and metal share territory: each brand’s vocabulary of shapes is collectively known as its design language. The beltline divides the greenhouse, or glassed-in upper body, from the portion that extends down from the window sills. Equally important is the A-line, said Michael Castiglione, principal exterior designer at DaimlerChrysler’s Pacifica studio in Carlsbad, Calif. The A-line runs the length of the body from headlight to taillight, tracing the car’s silhouette. The car may also have a character line, a crease formed in the sheet metal of the sides. Vehicles are said to have styling cues that prompt viewers to recognize models by their resemblance to other family members — a brand’s characteristic shapes and flourishes, the form of its grille or the arc of the roofline. Cumulatively, they make up the D.R.G., or down-the-road graphic of a car, the visual signature of a quickly glimpsed vehicle that should make it recognizable as a Cadillac or a Ford. At the extreme, think . D.R.G. is not to be confused with D.L.O., for daylight opening, the total area of the window glass. The angle of the windshield is known as its rake — an extreme tilt is said to be fast — while the inward angle of the side greenhouse windows is called the tumblehome. The body section below the base of the door, or rocker panel, is treated with a varying degree of turn-under, which Chris Chapman of BMW’s Designworks studio in Newbury Park, Calif., defines as the shape of the panel as it curves inward at the lower edge. The front face of a car is visually grounded in the lower fascia or valance, typically made of plastic these days. Stance is critical to the character a car projects, and its aggressiveness is frequently noted by designers in their presentations at new-model unveilings. The term refers to the way the body sits on the wheels, with energy — or not. Robert Boniface, director of advanced design for General Motors, recently worked on the Chevrolet Volt and Camaro show cars. He said that “stance has to do with the relative visual stability or instability of a particular design.” Cars with good stance are often referred to as being planted; small wheels and a wide upper body give a car a poor stance. Being planted lends a sense of sure-footedness to the design. Too high a stance can suggest standing on tiptoe, a tentative look. One critical element, designers said, is the axle-to-dash ratio, the proportion between the front wheel and the cowl (which is the base of the windshield). It helps to define the visual personality of the car. Another important relationship, according to Bryan Thompson, a car designer at the Nissan Design America studio in La Jolla, Calif., is that between glass and body. “A vehicle whose body is relatively thick compared to the amount of glass is called chunky,” he said. The proportion between wheel and body sizes is important in lending a vehicle its visual personality. “Wheel-to-body is the relationship of the wheel-tire plane to the sheet metal wheel opening,” Mr. Thompson said. “Wheels that are flush to the body are desirable. Wheels that are well inboard of the sheet metal plane are buried. Vehicles with buried wheels are called overbodied.” At its extreme, an overbodied car has the look of a parade float, with the body visually overpowering the wheels, Mr. Thompson said. The distinctive “bathtub” Nashes of the early 1950s suffered this trait. There is also what is called the roller skate effect, where the wheels and tires are too small for the body. (Volkswagens of the 1980s seemed to have especially small wheels proportionally, and fell prey to this phenomenon.) Huge wheels of 20, 22 or 23 inches, by contrast, make a vehicle look tough. Should A Chinese Car Look Like? DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise DESIGN; Showing Off Cars With Real Curves DESIGN; Body Language: How to Talk the Designers' Talk Trade Shows and Fairs Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/01/automobiles/01DESIGN.html?ex=1333080000&en=177705ec60b718dc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Body Language: How to Talk the Designers&#8217; Talk Language: How to Talk the Designers’ Talk 1, 2007 NEVER say dashboard, not if you want people at the auto show to think you know what you are talking about. Say I.P., for instrument panel, as designers do. in a mention of the greenhouse or the beltline is pretty easy, but you will really get points with casual references to A-, B-, and C-pillars, the order of the roof supports arranged from the windshield, whose base is called the cowl, to the rear window, or backlight. You might say, “That fat C-pillar would make it impossible to parallel park.” Every profession has its lingo. A list of common terms — and a few of the most colorful ones — can come in handy. With cars, words and metal share territory: each brand’s vocabulary of shapes is collectively known as its design language. The beltline divides the greenhouse, or glassed-in upper body, from the portion that extends down from the window sills. Equally important is the A-line, said Michael Castiglione, principal exterior designer at DaimlerChrysler’s Pacifica studio in Carlsbad, Calif. The A-line runs the length of the body from headlight to taillight, tracing the car’s silhouette. The car may also have a character line, a crease formed in the sheet metal of the sides. Vehicles are said to have styling cues that prompt viewers to recognize models by their resemblance to other family members — a brand’s characteristic shapes and flourishes, the form of its grille or the arc of the roofline. Cumulatively, they make up the D.R.G., or down-the-road graphic of a car, the visual signature of a quickly glimpsed vehicle that should make it recognizable as a Cadillac or a Ford. At the extreme, think . D.R.G. is not to be confused with D.L.O., for daylight opening, the total area of the window glass. The angle of the windshield is known as its rake — an extreme tilt is said to be fast — while the inward angle of the side greenhouse windows is called the tumblehome. The body section below the base of the door, or rocker panel, is treated with a varying degree of turn-under, which Chris Chapman of BMW’s Designworks studio in Newbury Park, Calif., defines as the shape of the panel as it curves inward at the lower edge. The front face of a car is visually grounded in the lower fascia or valance, typically made of plastic these days. Stance is critical to the character a car projects, and its aggressiveness is frequently noted by designers in their presentations at new-model unveilings. The term refers to the way the body sits on the wheels, with energy — or not. Robert Boniface, director of advanced design for General Motors, recently worked on the Chevrolet Volt and Camaro show cars. He said that “stance has to do with the relative visual stability or instability of a particular design.” Cars with good stance are often referred to as being planted; small wheels and a wide upper body give a car a poor stance. Being planted lends a sense of sure-footedness to the design. Too high a stance can suggest standing on tiptoe, a tentative look. One critical element, designers said, is the axle-to-dash ratio, the proportion between the front wheel and the cowl (which is the base of the windshield). It helps to define the visual personality of the car. Another important relationship, according to Bryan Thompson, a car designer at the Nissan Design America studio in La Jolla, Calif., is that between glass and body. “A vehicle whose body is relatively thick compared to the amount of glass is called chunky,” he said. The proportion between wheel and body sizes is important in lending a vehicle its visual personality. “Wheel-to-body is the relationship of the wheel-tire plane to the sheet metal wheel opening,” Mr. Thompson said. “Wheels that are flush to the body are desirable. Wheels that are well inboard of the sheet metal plane are buried. Vehicles with buried wheels are called overbodied.” At its extreme, an overbodied car has the look of a parade float, with the body visually overpowering the wheels, Mr. Thompson said. The distinctive “bathtub” Nashes of the early 1950s suffered this trait. There is also what is called the roller skate effect, where the wheels and tires are too small for the body. (Volkswagens of the 1980s seemed to have especially small wheels proportionally, and fell prey to this phenomenon.) Huge wheels of 20, 22 or 23 inches, by contrast, make a vehicle look tough. Should A Chinese Car Look Like? DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise DESIGN; Showing Off Cars With Real Curves DESIGN; Body Language: How to Talk the Designers' Talk Trade Shows and Fairs Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/15/automobiles/15TRAILER.html Airstream: The Concept Travels Well - The Concept Travels Well The classic Airstream trailer still appeals to a nation of rolling stones. 15, 2007 AS if abandoned by a misdirected camper who parked in the dark, a silver Airstream trailer sits these days in the lobby of the Museum of Modern Art. A model called the Bambi, designed in 1960 with Airstream&#8217;s distinctive streamlined riveted skin, has been acquired for the museum&#8217;s design collection. Skip to next paragraph Keeping The Shiny Side Up The first Airstream, the Clipper, arrived in 1936 amid a national craze for streamlining &#151; in cars, in buildings, in toasters &#151; as the brainchild of an inventor and travel promoter named Wally Byam. After World War II, as the highway system expanded, the economy boomed and Airstreams gained starring roles in Hollywood films, the trailer came to symbolize American-style travel. Airstream&#8217;s appeal seems to have few limits, and indeed a powerful world traveler recently provided proof of its persistent appeal. On a trip to Asia in February, Vice President traveled in an Airstream &#151; inside an airplane. Mark Silva, chief of the Washington bureau of The Chicago Tribune, accompanied the vice president as the press corps&#8217; pool print reporter. The group flew on a huge gray C-17 cargo plane that the Air Force calls the Spirit of , in honor of the late senator. Mr. Silva said that when he boarded he noted the familiar outline of the Airstream roof inside the vast fuselage. &#8220;I crawled on the floor to look at the nameplate,&#8221; Mr. Silva said, confirming that it read &#8220;Airstream, Jackson Center, Ohio.&#8221; Inside, Mr. Silva said in an interview, &#8220;there were plush leather chairs, blue-gray carpet, wood paneling, recessed lighting and a TV and DVD player.&#8221; He said the Airstream reminded him of one of the first he had seen, on the cover of a Ry Cooder record album from 1970. &#8220;The Airstream is the symbol of taking it on the road with style,&#8221; he added. A home for the road, the Airstream has long intrigued Americans as an ideal combination of their twin loves, vehicle and home. Its functionalism also let it be read as a symbol of the ideals of modern architecture. Christian Larsen, a curatorial assistant in &#8217;s department of architecture and design, said, &#8220;The Bambi is a machine for living and traveling, the sort of industrialized, rationalized vessel that had long been the dream object of modernist architects, from Le Corbusier to Buckminster Fuller.&#8221; Mr. Larsen also related the Airstream to the work of artists like Andrea Zittel, who builds trailerlike works, installed in galleries or outdoor installations. In recent years, the Airstream has attracted the attention of automakers, too. Nissan Design America, the California studio of the Japanese automaker, produced an Airstream trailer concept displayed at auto shows after its introduction at the New York International Contemporary Furniture Fair in 2003. Bryan Thompson, one of the designers, said Nissan&#8217;s work with Airstream led to the BaseCamp, a $20,000 trailer with a pop-up Kelty tent. The BaseCamp, which is now sold by Airstream, is light enough to be towed by the average car. &#8220;Airstream is one of those companies that is part of the heart and soul of American design,&#8221; Mr. Thompson said. &#8220;The shape is timeless, the materials are modern and the fabrication is hands-on traditional. They have the ability to combine Old World handmade craftsmanship with cutting-edge technology.&#8221; More recently, Airstream, which is based in Jackson Center, Ohio, and now owned by Thor Industries, has collaborated with Ford. The automaker&#8217;s Airstream design study, a crossover wagon theoretically powered by hydrogen fuel cells, was unveiled in Detroit in January and has been on display at the New York auto show, which closes today. The alliance grew out of a high-concept future study ordered by J Mays, the group vice president for design at Ford, to explore the American journey. The result was a concept vehicle of gleaming aluminum and orange window frames aimed at the growing number of baby boomers who are 55 and older &#151; a group that has historically accounted for a large percentage of trailer buyers. &#8220;The Ford Airstream concept captures the sense of optimism and adventure conveyed in American aircraft, spacecraft and the streamlined shape of Airstream trailers,&#8221; Mr. Mays said. The Ford concept realizes Wally Byam&#8217;s dream of eventually making the Airstream a self-propelled land yacht. (He foresaw a motorized portion that would detach from the mothership, like a dinghy.) It recalls the VW Microbus, and for that matter the Stout Scarab, a 1935 precursor to the minivan. Inside, the Ford concept car shifts its frame of reference to more distant travel. The materials and colors &#151; called &#8220;cosmic red and white&#8221; &#151; were inspired by the spacecraft in the 1968 film &#8220;2001: A Space Odyssey.&#8221; Space buffs will recall another connection between space travel and Airstream. In 1969, upon their return from the moon, the Apollo 11 astronauts were quartered inside a modified Airstream called the mobile quarantine facility. They remained in the silver pod for three weeks; President visited and waved at the astronauts through the window. New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/15/automobiles/15TRAILER.html Airstream: The Concept Travels Well The Concept Travels Well The classic Airstream trailer still appeals to a nation of rolling stones. 15, 2007 AS if abandoned by a misdirected camper who parked in the dark, a silver Airstream trailer sits these days in the lobby of the Museum of Modern Art. A model called the Bambi, designed in 1960 with Airstream&#8217;s distinctive streamlined riveted skin, has been acquired for the museum&#8217;s design collection. The Shiny Side Up The first Airstream, the Clipper, arrived in 1936 amid a national craze for streamlining &#151; in cars, in buildings, in toasters &#151; as the brainchild of an inventor and travel promoter named Wally Byam. After World War II, as the highway system expanded, the economy boomed and Airstreams gained starring roles in Hollywood films, the trailer came to symbolize American-style travel. Airstream&#8217;s appeal seems to have few limits, and indeed a powerful world traveler recently provided proof of its persistent appeal. On a trip to Asia in February, Vice President traveled in an Airstream &#151; inside an airplane. Mark Silva, chief of the Washington bureau of The Chicago Tribune, accompanied the vice president as the press corps&#8217; pool print reporter. The group flew on a huge gray C-17 cargo plane that the Air Force calls the Spirit of , in honor of the late senator. Mr. Silva said that when he boarded he noted the familiar outline of the Airstream roof inside the vast fuselage. &#8220;I crawled on the floor to look at the nameplate,&#8221; Mr. Silva said, confirming that it read &#8220;Airstream, Jackson Center, Ohio.&#8221; Inside, Mr. Silva said in an interview, &#8220;there were plush leather chairs, blue-gray carpet, wood paneling, recessed lighting and a TV and DVD player.&#8221; He said the Airstream reminded him of one of the first he had seen, on the cover of a Ry Cooder record album from 1970. &#8220;The Airstream is the symbol of taking it on the road with style,&#8221; he added. A home for the road, the Airstream has long intrigued Americans as an ideal combination of their twin loves, vehicle and home. Its functionalism also let it be read as a symbol of the ideals of modern architecture. Christian Larsen, a curatorial assistant in &#8217;s department of architecture and design, said, &#8220;The Bambi is a machine for living and traveling, the sort of industrialized, rationalized vessel that had long been the dream object of modernist architects, from Le Corbusier to Buckminster Fuller.&#8221; Mr. Larsen also related the Airstream to the work of artists like Andrea Zittel, who builds trailerlike works, installed in galleries or outdoor installations. In recent years, the Airstream has attracted the attention of automakers, too. Nissan Design America, the California studio of the Japanese automaker, produced an Airstream trailer concept displayed at auto shows after its introduction at the New York International Contemporary Furniture Fair in 2003. Bryan Thompson, one of the designers, said Nissan&#8217;s work with Airstream led to the BaseCamp, a $20,000 trailer with a pop-up Kelty tent. The BaseCamp, which is now sold by Airstream, is light enough to be towed by the average car. &#8220;Airstream is one of those companies that is part of the heart and soul of American design,&#8221; Mr. Thompson said. &#8220;The shape is timeless, the materials are modern and the fabrication is hands-on traditional. They have the ability to combine Old World handmade craftsmanship with cutting-edge technology.&#8221; More recently, Airstream, which is based in Jackson Center, Ohio, and now owned by Thor Industries, has collaborated with Ford. The automaker&#8217;s Airstream design study, a crossover wagon theoretically powered by hydrogen fuel cells, was unveiled in Detroit in January and has been on display at the New York auto show, which closes today. The alliance grew out of a high-concept future study ordered by J Mays, the group vice president for design at Ford, to explore the American journey. The result was a concept vehicle of gleaming aluminum and orange window frames aimed at the growing number of baby boomers who are 55 and older &#151; a group that has historically accounted for a large percentage of trailer buyers. &#8220;The Ford Airstream concept captures the sense of optimism and adventure conveyed in American aircraft, spacecraft and the streamlined shape of Airstream trailers,&#8221; Mr. Mays said. The Ford concept realizes Wally Byam&#8217;s dream of eventually making the Airstream a self-propelled land yacht. (He foresaw a motorized portion that would detach from the mothership, like a dinghy.) It recalls the VW Microbus, and for that matter the Stout Scarab, a 1935 precursor to the minivan. Inside, the Ford concept car shifts its frame of reference to more distant travel. The materials and colors &#151; called &#8220;cosmic red and white&#8221; &#151; were inspired by the spacecraft in the 1968 film &#8220;2001: A Space Odyssey.&#8221; Space buffs will recall another connection between space travel and Airstream. In 1969, upon their return from the moon, the Apollo 11 astronauts were quartered inside a modified Airstream called the mobile quarantine facility. They remained in the silver pod for three weeks; President visited and waved at the astronauts through the window. early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car ON LESS THAN YOU THINK
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/22/automobiles/autoreviews/22AUTO.html Review - 2008 Land Rover LR2 - Rover’s Tadpole Turns Into a Prince Land Rover says its LR2 is best in its class off-road, though the small S.U.V. comes without a low gear range. 22, 2007 IN the Johnny Cash song &#8220;A Boy Named Sue,&#8221; the protagonist is inspired by the revelation that his deadbeat dad gave him that awful name because, &#8220;I knew you&#8217;d have to get tough or die.&#8221; Perhaps that&#8217;s the rationale for saddling the otherwise appealing 2008 Land Rover LR2 with a rather unappealing name. Yes, the LR2&#8217;s stablemate, the LR3, carries an equally mundane designation. But the anonymity that comes with such a cipher of a label has helped the LR3 remain somewhat under the radar as it has compiled one of the auto industry&#8217;s lamest reliability records. Time will tell whether the LR2 transcends its potentially fateful family ties (Swedish engineering, Ford penny-pinching, British &#8220;reliability&#8221;) or is destined like the LR3 to remain a bottom-feeder in J. D. Power&#8217;s quality ratings. At least the LR2 wasn&#8217;t named Freelander, after the model it succeeds. That name, and the troubled model to which it was attached, had even more baggage. In what may have been the final nail in the Freelander&#8217;s coffin, at least in the United States, The Associated Press mistakenly called it the &#8220;Freeloader.&#8221; (Outside North America, the LR2 will be called Freelander 2.) The LR2 is one of those clean-sheet-of-paper designs, which means, a Land Rover engineer assured me, &#8220;It shares not a single part with the outgoing Freelander.&#8221; Doesn&#8217;t that sound like a catchy advertising slogan? The Freeload, er, Freelander arrived in the colonies in 2001; its sales peaked the next year at 15,000 units. Oblivion gradually followed, as with each sale it alienated another customer &#151; not just from the reliability-challenged Freelander, but from the entire Land Rover brand. Likewise, the larger LR3, which replaced the Discovery, was meant to lure back some of the disgruntled former owners that the Discovery&#8217;s quality gremlins had chased away, but its high price (relative to the Discovery) and comparably appalling reliability caused even more defections. Somewhat surprisingly, overall sales for the Land Rover brand are robust, thanks to the top-end Range Rover and Range Rover Sport models so adored by the landed gentry. As the brand&#8217;s latest good-will ambassador, the LR2 looks the part. The upright greenhouse, broad shoulders and fender gills scream Land Rover; the LR2 also retains some Freelander cues, particularly at the front. The LR2 is Land Rover&#8217;s only car-based utility vehicle; it is built on Ford Motor&#8217;s new EUCD platform, a derivative of the C1 platform for midsize automobiles. Volvo has done extensive subsequent engineering on EUCD, the structure that currently underpins the Volvo S80. Contrary to some reports, this platform is not shared by the Ford Escape or Mazda Tribute, although redesigned 2009 Escapes and Tributes will use it. This platform has a lower center of gravity than the old Freelander chassis. But larger wheels and tires cause a tiny overall increase in the LR2&#8217;s tipping point. A wider track, however, offsets the gravity issue. In short, the LR2 feels a lot more firmly planted than the Freelander did. In my testing, the LR2 rode rock solid, and there are reasons for that: a longer wheelbase, a 40 percent improvement in torsional rigidity, a fully independent suspension and quick rack-and-pinion steering (only 2.6 turns lock-to-lock). Land Rover says it tested and tuned the LR2&#8217;s handling at the N&#252;rburgring racetrack in Germany. The steering felt a bit heavy &#151; Land Rover confirmed that this was intentional &#151; but I prefer a little resistance in wheeling around a heavy-duty vehicle. Through high-speed corners, the steering maintained a consistent line, without constant need for driver adjustments. Body lean and sway were remarkably minimal, at least for a Land Rover. Among entry-level luxury S.U.V.&#8217;s, the LR2&#8217;s handling should be competitive, although the BMW X3 remains the class valedictorian. Rover's Tadpole Turns Into a Prince Ford Pledges Major Assets In Financing DESIGN; Luxury-Car Designers Decide Now Is the Perfect Time to Vent The Case for Inherited Wealth; You'll Pay for the Rover Pedigree million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands First Auto Show - 1900 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/22/automobiles/autoreviews/22AUTO.html Review - 2008 Land Rover LR2 Rover’s Tadpole Turns Into a Prince Land Rover says its LR2 is best in its class off-road, though the small S.U.V. comes without a low gear range. 22, 2007 IN the Johnny Cash song &#8220;A Boy Named Sue,&#8221; the protagonist is inspired by the revelation that his deadbeat dad gave him that awful name because, &#8220;I knew you&#8217;d have to get tough or die.&#8221; Perhaps that&#8217;s the rationale for saddling the otherwise appealing 2008 Land Rover LR2 with a rather unappealing name. Yes, the LR2&#8217;s stablemate, the LR3, carries an equally mundane designation. But the anonymity that comes with such a cipher of a label has helped the LR3 remain somewhat under the radar as it has compiled one of the auto industry&#8217;s lamest reliability records. Time will tell whether the LR2 transcends its potentially fateful family ties (Swedish engineering, Ford penny-pinching, British &#8220;reliability&#8221;) or is destined like the LR3 to remain a bottom-feeder in J. D. Power&#8217;s quality ratings. At least the LR2 wasn&#8217;t named Freelander, after the model it succeeds. That name, and the troubled model to which it was attached, had even more baggage. In what may have been the final nail in the Freelander&#8217;s coffin, at least in the United States, The Associated Press mistakenly called it the &#8220;Freeloader.&#8221; (Outside North America, the LR2 will be called Freelander 2.) The LR2 is one of those clean-sheet-of-paper designs, which means, a Land Rover engineer assured me, &#8220;It shares not a single part with the outgoing Freelander.&#8221; Doesn&#8217;t that sound like a catchy advertising slogan? The Freeload, er, Freelander arrived in the colonies in 2001; its sales peaked the next year at 15,000 units. Oblivion gradually followed, as with each sale it alienated another customer &#151; not just from the reliability-challenged Freelander, but from the entire Land Rover brand. Likewise, the larger LR3, which replaced the Discovery, was meant to lure back some of the disgruntled former owners that the Discovery&#8217;s quality gremlins had chased away, but its high price (relative to the Discovery) and comparably appalling reliability caused even more defections. Somewhat surprisingly, overall sales for the Land Rover brand are robust, thanks to the top-end Range Rover and Range Rover Sport models so adored by the landed gentry. As the brand&#8217;s latest good-will ambassador, the LR2 looks the part. The upright greenhouse, broad shoulders and fender gills scream Land Rover; the LR2 also retains some Freelander cues, particularly at the front. The LR2 is Land Rover&#8217;s only car-based utility vehicle; it is built on Ford Motor&#8217;s new EUCD platform, a derivative of the C1 platform for midsize automobiles. Volvo has done extensive subsequent engineering on EUCD, the structure that currently underpins the Volvo S80. Contrary to some reports, this platform is not shared by the Ford Escape or Mazda Tribute, although redesigned 2009 Escapes and Tributes will use it. This platform has a lower center of gravity than the old Freelander chassis. But larger wheels and tires cause a tiny overall increase in the LR2&#8217;s tipping point. A wider track, however, offsets the gravity issue. In short, the LR2 feels a lot more firmly planted than the Freelander did. In my testing, the LR2 rode rock solid, and there are reasons for that: a longer wheelbase, a 40 percent improvement in torsional rigidity, a fully independent suspension and quick rack-and-pinion steering (only 2.6 turns lock-to-lock). Land Rover says it tested and tuned the LR2&#8217;s handling at the N&#252;rburgring racetrack in Germany. The steering felt a bit heavy &#151; Land Rover confirmed that this was intentional &#151; but I prefer a little resistance in wheeling around a heavy-duty vehicle. Through high-speed corners, the steering maintained a consistent line, without constant need for driver adjustments. Body lean and sway were remarkably minimal, at least for a Land Rover. Among entry-level luxury S.U.V.&#8217;s, the LR2&#8217;s handling should be competitive, although the BMW X3 remains the class valedictorian. Rover's Tadpole Turns Into a Prince Ford Pledges Major Assets In Financing DESIGN; Luxury-Car Designers Decide Now Is the Perfect Time to Vent The Case for Inherited Wealth; You'll Pay for the Rover Pedigree Brothers' Historic First Flight - 1903
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/28/automobiles/29INFRAWEB.html At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway - Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway 28, 2007 ANY discussion of a future generation of hydrogen cars inevitably leads to the same question: Where will I fill the tank? Skip to next paragraph Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger fills up. Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles While automakers have demonstrated that they can build vehicles that produce no tailpipe pollutants, the commercial availability of hydrogen to power them remains a showstopper. There are other issues, of course — the cost of fuel cells and the methods of storing hydrogen among them — but matters like driveability and safety are no longer impediments to retail introduction. Still, hydrogen proponents promise a future of placid (and carbon-free) travel punctuated by occasional stops to replenish our tanks as conveniently as we fill them today. They champion an America laced by a hydrogen highway, dotted with service stations that offer safe, affordable refueling. Perhaps clean restrooms will be part of that future, too. Their vision is more than an idealistic pipe dream. President Bush has been talking up hydrogen for four years; the Energy Department has set a goal for hydrogen to provide 10 percent of the nation’s energy needs by 2030; and Samuel W. Bodman, the secretary of energy, recently doled out research grants worth $8.2 million aimed at expanding hydrogen storage capacity. The hydrogen movement actually began long before the recent spurt of activity. General Motors started experiments with hydrogen fuel in the 1960s, followed by BMW in the 1970s. Six years ago, Honda built a solar-powered hydrogen production facility at its Torrance, Calif., research center. Today, every major vehicle maker is studying alternatives to gasoline with the goal of supplanting hydrocarbons with hydrogen. So far, the only hydrogen fueling stations in service are prototypes like Honda’s, built to foster research. Hydrogen tankers are not an everyday sight on American highways, and the hydrogen production plants needed to slake America’s thirst for portable energy have not been built. The hydrogen highway is not yet a county byway, let alone an Interstate. But it is more than a dirt path through the woods. Hydrogen is at least a global commodity: 50 million tons of this industrial gas are produced every year around the world. More than half of that is used to make ammonia, a component of fertilizer, cleaning products and medicines. It is also a constituent of methanol, an important ingredient in paint, antifreeze and formaldehyde. The surprising slice of the global hydrogen pie is the 14 million tons — more than 25 percent of annual production — consumed by oil companies. Hydrogen is a cozy bedfellow with petroleum, both an ingredient in the refining processes used to upgrade the quality of crude oil and a byproduct of the catalytic refining process. It is collected for on-site use, but that source is not enough to meet the needs of refiners. The rising demand for gasoline is pressuring refiners to use lower quality crude oil, which requires more hydrogen. In addition, recent mandates to reduce the sulfur levels of diesel fuel have also increased demand for hydrogen. Hydrogen can be transported from centralized plants by pipeline or tank truck, but a more practical option is manufacturing it on-site by a process known as steam reforming, which separates the hydrogen from natural gas. Steam reforming is a cost-effective means of sustaining the oil business, but not a viable way to energize a hydrogen economy. The available supply of natural gas simply is not adequate to support our growing needs to use it for generating electricity, heating our homes and meeting the hydrogen demands of industry. One downside to steam reforming is the amount of carbon dioxide — the main greenhouse gas — generated when hydrogen is extracted from natural gas this way. Steam reforming, used to produce 95 percent of the hydrogen supply for the United States, according to the Energy Department, releases 350 million tons of carbon dioxide a year. One possible way to offset that undesirable addition to the atmosphere is sequestration, collecting the carbon dioxide and storing it in the ocean or the ground. This plan shows some promise, but not on the scale required to support a hydrogen-powered future. Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Amelia Earhart - 1932. Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/28/automobiles/29INFRAWEB.html At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway 28, 2007 ANY discussion of a future generation of hydrogen cars inevitably leads to the same question: Where will I fill the tank? Arnold Schwarzenegger fills up. Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles While automakers have demonstrated that they can build vehicles that produce no tailpipe pollutants, the commercial availability of hydrogen to power them remains a showstopper. There are other issues, of course — the cost of fuel cells and the methods of storing hydrogen among them — but matters like driveability and safety are no longer impediments to retail introduction. Still, hydrogen proponents promise a future of placid (and carbon-free) travel punctuated by occasional stops to replenish our tanks as conveniently as we fill them today. They champion an America laced by a hydrogen highway, dotted with service stations that offer safe, affordable refueling. Perhaps clean restrooms will be part of that future, too. Their vision is more than an idealistic pipe dream. President Bush has been talking up hydrogen for four years; the Energy Department has set a goal for hydrogen to provide 10 percent of the nation’s energy needs by 2030; and Samuel W. Bodman, the secretary of energy, recently doled out research grants worth $8.2 million aimed at expanding hydrogen storage capacity. The hydrogen movement actually began long before the recent spurt of activity. General Motors started experiments with hydrogen fuel in the 1960s, followed by BMW in the 1970s. Six years ago, Honda built a solar-powered hydrogen production facility at its Torrance, Calif., research center. Today, every major vehicle maker is studying alternatives to gasoline with the goal of supplanting hydrocarbons with hydrogen. So far, the only hydrogen fueling stations in service are prototypes like Honda’s, built to foster research. Hydrogen tankers are not an everyday sight on American highways, and the hydrogen production plants needed to slake America’s thirst for portable energy have not been built. The hydrogen highway is not yet a county byway, let alone an Interstate. But it is more than a dirt path through the woods. Hydrogen is at least a global commodity: 50 million tons of this industrial gas are produced every year around the world. More than half of that is used to make ammonia, a component of fertilizer, cleaning products and medicines. It is also a constituent of methanol, an important ingredient in paint, antifreeze and formaldehyde. The surprising slice of the global hydrogen pie is the 14 million tons — more than 25 percent of annual production — consumed by oil companies. Hydrogen is a cozy bedfellow with petroleum, both an ingredient in the refining processes used to upgrade the quality of crude oil and a byproduct of the catalytic refining process. It is collected for on-site use, but that source is not enough to meet the needs of refiners. The rising demand for gasoline is pressuring refiners to use lower quality crude oil, which requires more hydrogen. In addition, recent mandates to reduce the sulfur levels of diesel fuel have also increased demand for hydrogen. Hydrogen can be transported from centralized plants by pipeline or tank truck, but a more practical option is manufacturing it on-site by a process known as steam reforming, which separates the hydrogen from natural gas. Steam reforming is a cost-effective means of sustaining the oil business, but not a viable way to energize a hydrogen economy. The available supply of natural gas simply is not adequate to support our growing needs to use it for generating electricity, heating our homes and meeting the hydrogen demands of industry. One downside to steam reforming is the amount of carbon dioxide — the main greenhouse gas — generated when hydrogen is extracted from natural gas this way. Steam reforming, used to produce 95 percent of the hydrogen supply for the United States, according to the Energy Department, releases 350 million tons of carbon dioxide a year. One possible way to offset that undesirable addition to the atmosphere is sequestration, collecting the carbon dioxide and storing it in the ocean or the ground. This plan shows some promise, but not on the scale required to support a hydrogen-powered future. Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car WELL ON LESS THAN YOU THINK
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29HINDEN.html In the Air, a Very Public Failure - the Air, a Very Public Failure 29, 2007 Skip to next paragraph That&#146;s all it took to bring the Hindenburg down. Dith Pran/The Zitarosa cites a hydrogen leak. three times as long as a Boeing 747, being prepared in Germany for its first test flight in 1936. It was destroyed the next year on its 63rd flight. THE May 6, 1937, crash of the Hindenburg at the Navy base here was the 20th century&#8217;s first transportation disaster captured by newsreel, audio recordings and still photos. The advancement in communications, combined with the observations of more than a thousand witnesses and survivors, is why one calamity with a relatively modest death toll permanently soiled hydrogen&#8217;s reputation. In 34 fiery seconds, hydrogen leaped from the No. 1 position on the periodic table of elements to the last thing any citizen would consider pumping into a car&#8217;s fuel tank. But was hydrogen really to blame? Over the last seven decades, countless inquiries, investigations, books, movies, television reports and Internet postings have attempted to answer that question. After weighing the evidence, Rick Zitarosa, 45, of Point Pleasant, N.J., said he thought he knew the cause of the Hindenburg&#8217;s demise. Mr. Zitarosa, a supervisor for the New Jersey Turnpike Authority , is not a scientist, engineer or lawyer. But since he read a book on the subject as a 10-year old, his passion has been the study of airships in general and the Hindenburg in particular. His colleague, Lawrence Lyford, deputy public affairs officer for the Naval Air Engineering Station here, said, &#8220;Rick Zitarosa is our resident expert on the subject of lighter-than-air service. He achieved this standing through extensive document research and numerous interviews.&#8221; Mr. Zitarosa said the ship, the German zeppelin LZ 129, was on its 63rd flight and had logged 3,000 hours of reliable service. &#8220;It was a large, complex machine, three times as long as a Boeing 747,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Its structure consisted of 12 miles of duralumin, an aircraft alloy, girders joined by over 4 million rivets and 100 miles of brace wires. The outer skin was 40 acres of cotton fabric impregnated with iron oxide, cellulose acetate butyrate and aluminum powder.&#8221; He added that the zeppelin&#8217;s 16 cells, made of gas-proof latex-treated cotton, contained seven million cubic feet of hydrogen gas capable of lifting 247,000 pounds. Four Daimler-Benz diesel engines propelled the Hindenburg to a maximum speed of 84 miles an hour. &#8220;A crew of 16 operated the ship and there were cabins inside the hull for 50 passengers,&#8221; he said. On May 6, strong Atlantic headwinds and stormy weather on the East Coast had delayed the Hindenburg&#8217;s arrival by 12 hours. Mr. Zitarosa said that Captain Max Pruss &#8220;may have been in a hurry to get the ship on the ground. During a lull in the thunderstorm activity, he made a rather tight turn during its final approach. Gas was vented to bring the ship into trim. During the last 11 minutes of the trip, the ship was tail heavy, so 2,000 pounds of water was dropped from the stern. &#8220;Electrical conditions in the atmosphere were probably a little risky. Earlier in the day, rubber factories in northern New Jersey had been closed due to static in the air; the fear was that stocks of carbon black might ignite.&#8221; The Hindenburg&#8217;s heavy tail just before landing is evidence of a loss of hydrogen, Mr. Zitarosa said, adding that there were two likely explanations for the leak: a stuck valve during maneuvering to reduce altitude or a minor structural failure caused by guy wires snapping during the aggressive turn, resulting in the puncture of a gas cell. &#8220;U.S. Navy Chief Petty Officer R. H. Ward, from his position at the top of the mooring mast, noticed fluttering in the upper-rear area of the Hindenburg&#8217;s skin,&#8221; Mr. Zitarosa said. &#8220;That had to be gas rippling in the space between the frame and the outer covering.&#8221; Another witness saw a likely ignition source. Mr. Zitarosa said a Princeton professor reported seeing a dim blue flame, like St. Elmo&#8217;s fire, the electrical discharge that sometimes occurs during thunderstorms, flickering along the ship&#8217;s backbone girder. The ship burst into flame at about 7:25 p.m. &#8220;In a nutshell, the catastrophe began with escaping hydrogen,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Air mixing with the hydrogen created a combustible mixture. Either a spark jumping from the electrically charged outer covering to the metal framework or the St. Elmo&#8217;s fire lit the mixture. A puff or pop indicating detonation was heard by several observers. &#8220;It&#8217;s important to note that the Hindenburg didn&#8217;t explode. It was consumed by rapid combustion; this is evident in photographs. Heat produced in the first burning cell raised the temperature of adjacent cells, causing hydrogen to spill out of pressure-relief valves. It took only 34 seconds for fire to engulf the entire ship.&#8221; Thirty-six people were killed. What about several sabotage theories that have been debated? &#8220;Germany had many enemies in 1937,&#8221; Mr. Zitarosa said. &#8220;After the disaster, there were thorough investigations by a very paranoid Nazi government and its notorious secret police, but no smoking gun was found.&#8221; Theorists have also pointed to hot diesel engines, leaking diesel fuel, and skin allegedly coated with rocket fuel as the cause of the accident. Mr. Zitarosa dismissed that theory, saying that the engines and fuel were in the lower half of the ship, while the fire was observed first in the upper part. Mr. Zitarosa also dismissed the incendiary paint theory proposed by a retired technician, Addison Bain, and an author, R. G. Van Treuren. The Discovery Channel&#8217;s &#8220;Mythbuster&#8221; television show rejected the paint theory after igniting three scale-model Hindenburgs. While the accident destroyed the Hindenburg, it didn&#8217;t harm the base. Seventy years later, Lakehurst is still a Navy facility. Before the Navy came to town, the property was used for World War I chemical warfare experimentation by the Army. In 1919, Navy Secretary converted the site to a Navy dirigible field to be equipped with two rigid airship hangars. Hangar No. 1, still standing, was completed two years later. The Navy commissioned rigid airships for use as long-range aerial scouts and nonrigid ships (called blimps) for training and antisubmarine work. All were filled with helium, not hydrogen. After World War II, training and maintenance continued until 1962. This year, the Navy acquired a commercial blimp that it is testing at Lakehurst. Now called Naval Air Engineering Station, Lakehurst specializes in producing aircraft carrier launch, recovery, and support equipment for planes and helicopters. Don Sherman, technical editor of Automobile magazine, is a frequent contributor to SECOND COMING; In the Air, a Very Public Failure Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29HINDEN.html In the Air, a Very Public Failure the Air, a Very Public Failure 29, 2007 all it took to bring the Hindenburg down. Dith Pran/The Zitarosa cites a hydrogen leak. three times as long as a Boeing 747, being prepared in Germany for its first test flight in 1936. It was destroyed the next year on its 63rd flight. THE May 6, 1937, crash of the Hindenburg at the Navy base here was the 20th century&#8217;s first transportation disaster captured by newsreel, audio recordings and still photos. The advancement in communications, combined with the observations of more than a thousand witnesses and survivors, is why one calamity with a relatively modest death toll permanently soiled hydrogen&#8217;s reputation. In 34 fiery seconds, hydrogen leaped from the No. 1 position on the periodic table of elements to the last thing any citizen would consider pumping into a car&#8217;s fuel tank. But was hydrogen really to blame? Over the last seven decades, countless inquiries, investigations, books, movies, television reports and Internet postings have attempted to answer that question. After weighing the evidence, Rick Zitarosa, 45, of Point Pleasant, N.J., said he thought he knew the cause of the Hindenburg&#8217;s demise. Mr. Zitarosa, a supervisor for the New Jersey Turnpike Authority , is not a scientist, engineer or lawyer. But since he read a book on the subject as a 10-year old, his passion has been the study of airships in general and the Hindenburg in particular. His colleague, Lawrence Lyford, deputy public affairs officer for the Naval Air Engineering Station here, said, &#8220;Rick Zitarosa is our resident expert on the subject of lighter-than-air service. He achieved this standing through extensive document research and numerous interviews.&#8221; Mr. Zitarosa said the ship, the German zeppelin LZ 129, was on its 63rd flight and had logged 3,000 hours of reliable service. &#8220;It was a large, complex machine, three times as long as a Boeing 747,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Its structure consisted of 12 miles of duralumin, an aircraft alloy, girders joined by over 4 million rivets and 100 miles of brace wires. The outer skin was 40 acres of cotton fabric impregnated with iron oxide, cellulose acetate butyrate and aluminum powder.&#8221; He added that the zeppelin&#8217;s 16 cells, made of gas-proof latex-treated cotton, contained seven million cubic feet of hydrogen gas capable of lifting 247,000 pounds. Four Daimler-Benz diesel engines propelled the Hindenburg to a maximum speed of 84 miles an hour. &#8220;A crew of 16 operated the ship and there were cabins inside the hull for 50 passengers,&#8221; he said. On May 6, strong Atlantic headwinds and stormy weather on the East Coast had delayed the Hindenburg&#8217;s arrival by 12 hours. Mr. Zitarosa said that Captain Max Pruss &#8220;may have been in a hurry to get the ship on the ground. During a lull in the thunderstorm activity, he made a rather tight turn during its final approach. Gas was vented to bring the ship into trim. During the last 11 minutes of the trip, the ship was tail heavy, so 2,000 pounds of water was dropped from the stern. &#8220;Electrical conditions in the atmosphere were probably a little risky. Earlier in the day, rubber factories in northern New Jersey had been closed due to static in the air; the fear was that stocks of carbon black might ignite.&#8221; The Hindenburg&#8217;s heavy tail just before landing is evidence of a loss of hydrogen, Mr. Zitarosa said, adding that there were two likely explanations for the leak: a stuck valve during maneuvering to reduce altitude or a minor structural failure caused by guy wires snapping during the aggressive turn, resulting in the puncture of a gas cell. &#8220;U.S. Navy Chief Petty Officer R. H. Ward, from his position at the top of the mooring mast, noticed fluttering in the upper-rear area of the Hindenburg&#8217;s skin,&#8221; Mr. Zitarosa said. &#8220;That had to be gas rippling in the space between the frame and the outer covering.&#8221; Another witness saw a likely ignition source. Mr. Zitarosa said a Princeton professor reported seeing a dim blue flame, like St. Elmo&#8217;s fire, the electrical discharge that sometimes occurs during thunderstorms, flickering along the ship&#8217;s backbone girder. The ship burst into flame at about 7:25 p.m. &#8220;In a nutshell, the catastrophe began with escaping hydrogen,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Air mixing with the hydrogen created a combustible mixture. Either a spark jumping from the electrically charged outer covering to the metal framework or the St. Elmo&#8217;s fire lit the mixture. A puff or pop indicating detonation was heard by several observers. &#8220;It&#8217;s important to note that the Hindenburg didn&#8217;t explode. It was consumed by rapid combustion; this is evident in photographs. Heat produced in the first burning cell raised the temperature of adjacent cells, causing hydrogen to spill out of pressure-relief valves. It took only 34 seconds for fire to engulf the entire ship.&#8221; Thirty-six people were killed. What about several sabotage theories that have been debated? &#8220;Germany had many enemies in 1937,&#8221; Mr. Zitarosa said. &#8220;After the disaster, there were thorough investigations by a very paranoid Nazi government and its notorious secret police, but no smoking gun was found.&#8221; Theorists have also pointed to hot diesel engines, leaking diesel fuel, and skin allegedly coated with rocket fuel as the cause of the accident. Mr. Zitarosa dismissed that theory, saying that the engines and fuel were in the lower half of the ship, while the fire was observed first in the upper part. Mr. Zitarosa also dismissed the incendiary paint theory proposed by a retired technician, Addison Bain, and an author, R. G. Van Treuren. The Discovery Channel&#8217;s &#8220;Mythbuster&#8221; television show rejected the paint theory after igniting three scale-model Hindenburgs. While the accident destroyed the Hindenburg, it didn&#8217;t harm the base. Seventy years later, Lakehurst is still a Navy facility. Before the Navy came to town, the property was used for World War I chemical warfare experimentation by the Army. In 1919, Navy Secretary converted the site to a Navy dirigible field to be equipped with two rigid airship hangars. Hangar No. 1, still standing, was completed two years later. The Navy commissioned rigid airships for use as long-range aerial scouts and nonrigid ships (called blimps) for training and antisubmarine work. All were filled with helium, not hydrogen. After World War II, training and maintenance continued until 1962. This year, the Navy acquired a commercial blimp that it is testing at Lakehurst. Now called Naval Air Engineering Station, Lakehurst specializes in producing aircraft carrier launch, recovery, and support equipment for planes and helicopters. Don Sherman, technical editor of Automobile magazine, is a frequent contributor to SECOND COMING; In the Air, a Very Public Failure Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29INTRO.html On the Road, Hope for a Zero-Pollution Car - the Road, Hope for a Zero-Pollution Car Dith Pran/The hydrogen vehicles at the spot where the Hindenburg crashed on May 6, 1937. 29, 2007 Skip to next paragraph The Future of Hydrogen Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles WHEN the largest aircraft ever built — the pride of Nazi Germany — crashed in flames at the United States Navy’s airship base here, it took 36 lives and smeared the reputation of hydrogen for decades. In less than a minute, the Hindenburg disaster of 1937 turned hydrogen, which provided the zeppelin’s lift, into a pariah. But 70 years later, a growing number of advocates are promoting hydrogen as a panacea, a promising alternative to petroleum. In the last decade, every large carmaker has jumped on the hydrogen express. In dozens of laboratories and research centers, scientists and engineers are busy searching for ways to reduce the cost and improve the practicality of hydrogen-powered vehicles. Development has progressed to the point that some of these prototype vehicles are in daily service, commuting around Detroit, delivering packages in Washington, serving urban bus routes. To look in on the development progress of hydrogen vehicles, 10 companies actively promoting hydrogen for personal transportation to bring their vehicles to the Naval Air Engineering Station here. With pressure mounting to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere, the anniversary of a pivotal event 70 years ago seemed an appropriate time to look for a clearer understanding of what cars may be like in 30 years. Some carmakers deemed the disaster site an awkward location for this gathering; others were sympathetic but unable to field a vehicle because experimental mules have testing and appearance schedules busier than those of presidential hopefuls. The three hydrogen-powered vehicles that did arrive here (all by trailer, because refueling was not available for the long trips from their bases) were not the latest models from the auto show circuit, but hard-working development vehicles with thousands of testing miles on their odometers. Weather was also a factor. The day of the gathering was fraught by a severe northeaster. Six inches of rain was followed by flooded roads and snow, as the winds blew and angry skies frowned. But the show went on, thanks in part to the hosts at the base and the Navy Lakehurst Historical Society. The Hindenburg anniversary is not the only reason hydrogen is in the news. Four years ago, in his State of the Union address, President Bush announced a $1.2 billion hydrogen initiative to foster clean air and lessen dependence on imported oil. The Department of Energy has conducted marriages of sorts, joining automakers with energy companies — General Motors and Shell; Ford and DaimlerChrysler with BP — to encourage research and set standards for refueling hardware. As hydrogen gains favor, hydrocarbons seem to be taking over the role of villain. Peak oil theorists, especially Matthew Simmons, chairman of the Simmons & Company investment bank and the author of “Twilight in the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock and the World Economy” contend that increased demand will outpace the ability to increase production. And the Supreme Court’s April 2 ruling that the E.P.A. has authority to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant, as it does tailpipe emissions, was a powerful vote against fossil fuels. So the three hydrogen-fueled vehicles that gathered at the Hindenburg crash site are harbingers of the future, proof that all of hydrogen’s potential in transportation did not go up in flames 70 years ago. The spot where the Hindenburg met its end is now a historic landmark. A heavy yellow anchor chain surrounds a concrete pad replicating the size, shape, and final resting place of the Hindenburg’s control car. Rick Zitarosa, historian of the Navy Lakehurst Historical Society, said the Navy intended to preserve the site in its current form. The vehicles here, and three other experimental cars driven elsewhere, cover a broad spectrum of hydrogen possibilities. Here are highlights: Ford regards hydrogen-fueled internal-combustion engines as “a bridge to fuel cells, the powertrain of the future.” Teamed with BP, Ford built a fleet of 30 E-450 shuttle buses. Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands George Washington Bronze Portrait Bust Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29INTRO.html On the Road, Hope for a Zero-Pollution Car the Road, Hope for a Zero-Pollution Car Dith Pran/The hydrogen vehicles at the spot where the Hindenburg crashed on May 6, 1937. 29, 2007 Future of Hydrogen Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles WHEN the largest aircraft ever built — the pride of Nazi Germany — crashed in flames at the United States Navy’s airship base here, it took 36 lives and smeared the reputation of hydrogen for decades. In less than a minute, the Hindenburg disaster of 1937 turned hydrogen, which provided the zeppelin’s lift, into a pariah. But 70 years later, a growing number of advocates are promoting hydrogen as a panacea, a promising alternative to petroleum. In the last decade, every large carmaker has jumped on the hydrogen express. In dozens of laboratories and research centers, scientists and engineers are busy searching for ways to reduce the cost and improve the practicality of hydrogen-powered vehicles. Development has progressed to the point that some of these prototype vehicles are in daily service, commuting around Detroit, delivering packages in Washington, serving urban bus routes. To look in on the development progress of hydrogen vehicles, 10 companies actively promoting hydrogen for personal transportation to bring their vehicles to the Naval Air Engineering Station here. With pressure mounting to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere, the anniversary of a pivotal event 70 years ago seemed an appropriate time to look for a clearer understanding of what cars may be like in 30 years. Some carmakers deemed the disaster site an awkward location for this gathering; others were sympathetic but unable to field a vehicle because experimental mules have testing and appearance schedules busier than those of presidential hopefuls. The three hydrogen-powered vehicles that did arrive here (all by trailer, because refueling was not available for the long trips from their bases) were not the latest models from the auto show circuit, but hard-working development vehicles with thousands of testing miles on their odometers. Weather was also a factor. The day of the gathering was fraught by a severe northeaster. Six inches of rain was followed by flooded roads and snow, as the winds blew and angry skies frowned. But the show went on, thanks in part to the hosts at the base and the Navy Lakehurst Historical Society. The Hindenburg anniversary is not the only reason hydrogen is in the news. Four years ago, in his State of the Union address, President Bush announced a $1.2 billion hydrogen initiative to foster clean air and lessen dependence on imported oil. The Department of Energy has conducted marriages of sorts, joining automakers with energy companies — General Motors and Shell; Ford and DaimlerChrysler with BP — to encourage research and set standards for refueling hardware. As hydrogen gains favor, hydrocarbons seem to be taking over the role of villain. Peak oil theorists, especially Matthew Simmons, chairman of the Simmons & Company investment bank and the author of “Twilight in the Desert: The Coming Saudi Oil Shock and the World Economy” contend that increased demand will outpace the ability to increase production. And the Supreme Court’s April 2 ruling that the E.P.A. has authority to regulate carbon dioxide as a pollutant, as it does tailpipe emissions, was a powerful vote against fossil fuels. So the three hydrogen-fueled vehicles that gathered at the Hindenburg crash site are harbingers of the future, proof that all of hydrogen’s potential in transportation did not go up in flames 70 years ago. The spot where the Hindenburg met its end is now a historic landmark. A heavy yellow anchor chain surrounds a concrete pad replicating the size, shape, and final resting place of the Hindenburg’s control car. Rick Zitarosa, historian of the Navy Lakehurst Historical Society, said the Navy intended to preserve the site in its current form. The vehicles here, and three other experimental cars driven elsewhere, cover a broad spectrum of hydrogen possibilities. Here are highlights: Ford regards hydrogen-fueled internal-combustion engines as “a bridge to fuel cells, the powertrain of the future.” Teamed with BP, Ford built a fleet of 30 E-450 shuttle buses. Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car Fab Beatles Commemorative
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29PRIMER.html?ex=1335499200&en=552054e223cdb804&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) - Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) The Ford Edge with HySeries Drive. 29, 2007 AT the moment, hydrogen seems to be the most practical way to power vehicles that do not emit carbon dioxide, the principal greenhouse gas. But despite considerable research, many hurdles remain. Here are some questions and answers: Skip to next paragraph From Point A to Point B by Way of H Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles Where does hydrogen come from? Hydrogen, an odorless, colorless gas, is the lightest and most plentiful element in the universe. It is found in water and in most organic matter, but it is usually bound with other elements. For that reason, it is called an energy carrier, meaning that energy has to be expended to extract it. But can’t it be burned in an engine? Fuels like coal, natural gas or oil can be taken from the ground and used with relatively little energy-intensive processing. But hydrogen must be turned into a fuel — and because it takes so much energy to produce, it should not be thought of as a direct replacement for fuels like gasoline. Rather, it is energy in a portable form, somewhat akin to electricity. Because aside from being plentiful, it is very clean. Cars running on hydrogen produce very little tailpipe pollution and no greenhouse gases — they leave only a trail of water. In this way, cars running on fuel cells — which produce electricity by a chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen — would produce no tailpipe emissions. What is hydrogen used for today? It has several uses. About nine million tons of hydrogen are produced annually in the United States, mostly for chemical production, petroleum refining and metal treatment. What is the cost of a unit of hydrogen with the same energy content as a gallon of gasoline? That question has many answers. Hydrogen is certainly expensive to produce now, with costs somewhat dependent on the source material. A kilogram of hydrogen has about the same energy content as a gallon of gasoline, but hydrogen proponents point out that fuel cells can have double or triple the efficiency of gasoline engines. Hydrogen is most commonly produced by a process called steam reforming, which extracts the hydrogen from natural gas. The cost of natural gas reforming, which has been the cheapest method, has been affected by the rising price of natural gas. A kilo of hydrogen produced by steam reforming costs from $4 to $8 today. It can also be made by electrolysis, which separates water into hydrogen and oxygen. The cost of hydrogen produced from water is tied to the price of electricity, which fluctuates by region and by type of generation. If grid electricity sold for 5 cents per kilowatt-hour, hydrogen could be produced through electrolysis for $3 per gallon equivalent. But electricity is typically 10 to 14 cents today, so electrolytic hydrogen from grid electricity is often $6 per gallon equivalent or more. These high costs make hydrogen generated from renewable electricity sources like wind farms or solar power more attractive. A federal National Renewable Energy Laboratory report in February estimated that a kilogram of hydrogen could be produced for $3.63 using solar power and for $3.10 using wind. “The solar technology is promising, but it won’t happen quickly,” said Robert D. McConnell of the laboratory’s solar energy program. Can nuclear power be a source of inexpensive hydrogen? Yes. Dr. Kenneth R. Schultz, operations director of the energy group at General Atomics, a research and development firm in San Diego, said that by 2025 the nuclear industry could be able to produce hydrogen for $1.50 to $2 a kilogram. But Amory B. Lovins, chairman and chief scientist at the Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit energy research organization in Snowmass, Colo., described both the process and the price as “aspirational.” How will we use hydrogen in a motor vehicle? There are several options. In the most common prediction, compressed hydrogen gas is stored in a reinforced tank aboard a car, then fed to a fuel cell. The cell is not an engine, but a small chemical factory that converts the pressurized gas to electricity, which runs an electric motor. The only emission is water. Liquid hydrogen offers excellent energy density per volume, but it would have to be carried in cryogenic tanks because hydrogen doesn’t liquefy until it reaches minus 423 degrees Fahrenheit. Metal hydrides offer an opportunity to store hydrogen in solid form, but such a system is heavy and therefore reduces the vehicle’s travel range. Jim Motavalli, the editor of E: The Environmental Magazine, is a frequent contributor to Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29PRIMER.html?ex=1335499200&en=552054e223cdb804&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) The Ford Edge with HySeries Drive. 29, 2007 AT the moment, hydrogen seems to be the most practical way to power vehicles that do not emit carbon dioxide, the principal greenhouse gas. But despite considerable research, many hurdles remain. Here are some questions and answers: Point A to Point B by Way of H Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles Where does hydrogen come from? Hydrogen, an odorless, colorless gas, is the lightest and most plentiful element in the universe. It is found in water and in most organic matter, but it is usually bound with other elements. For that reason, it is called an energy carrier, meaning that energy has to be expended to extract it. But can’t it be burned in an engine? Fuels like coal, natural gas or oil can be taken from the ground and used with relatively little energy-intensive processing. But hydrogen must be turned into a fuel — and because it takes so much energy to produce, it should not be thought of as a direct replacement for fuels like gasoline. Rather, it is energy in a portable form, somewhat akin to electricity. Because aside from being plentiful, it is very clean. Cars running on hydrogen produce very little tailpipe pollution and no greenhouse gases — they leave only a trail of water. In this way, cars running on fuel cells — which produce electricity by a chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen — would produce no tailpipe emissions. What is hydrogen used for today? It has several uses. About nine million tons of hydrogen are produced annually in the United States, mostly for chemical production, petroleum refining and metal treatment. What is the cost of a unit of hydrogen with the same energy content as a gallon of gasoline? That question has many answers. Hydrogen is certainly expensive to produce now, with costs somewhat dependent on the source material. A kilogram of hydrogen has about the same energy content as a gallon of gasoline, but hydrogen proponents point out that fuel cells can have double or triple the efficiency of gasoline engines. Hydrogen is most commonly produced by a process called steam reforming, which extracts the hydrogen from natural gas. The cost of natural gas reforming, which has been the cheapest method, has been affected by the rising price of natural gas. A kilo of hydrogen produced by steam reforming costs from $4 to $8 today. It can also be made by electrolysis, which separates water into hydrogen and oxygen. The cost of hydrogen produced from water is tied to the price of electricity, which fluctuates by region and by type of generation. If grid electricity sold for 5 cents per kilowatt-hour, hydrogen could be produced through electrolysis for $3 per gallon equivalent. But electricity is typically 10 to 14 cents today, so electrolytic hydrogen from grid electricity is often $6 per gallon equivalent or more. These high costs make hydrogen generated from renewable electricity sources like wind farms or solar power more attractive. A federal National Renewable Energy Laboratory report in February estimated that a kilogram of hydrogen could be produced for $3.63 using solar power and for $3.10 using wind. “The solar technology is promising, but it won’t happen quickly,” said Robert D. McConnell of the laboratory’s solar energy program. Can nuclear power be a source of inexpensive hydrogen? Yes. Dr. Kenneth R. Schultz, operations director of the energy group at General Atomics, a research and development firm in San Diego, said that by 2025 the nuclear industry could be able to produce hydrogen for $1.50 to $2 a kilogram. But Amory B. Lovins, chairman and chief scientist at the Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit energy research organization in Snowmass, Colo., described both the process and the price as “aspirational.” How will we use hydrogen in a motor vehicle? There are several options. In the most common prediction, compressed hydrogen gas is stored in a reinforced tank aboard a car, then fed to a fuel cell. The cell is not an engine, but a small chemical factory that converts the pressurized gas to electricity, which runs an electric motor. The only emission is water. Liquid hydrogen offers excellent energy density per volume, but it would have to be carried in cryogenic tanks because hydrogen doesn’t liquefy until it reaches minus 423 degrees Fahrenheit. Metal hydrides offer an opportunity to store hydrogen in solid form, but such a system is heavy and therefore reduces the vehicle’s travel range. Jim Motavalli, the editor of E: The Environmental Magazine, is a frequent contributor to Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/02/automobiles/02auto.html?ex=1335758400&en=e45d2db87e68aa00&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot - Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot The Ford Edge crossover vehicles, introduced late last year, sat on a dealer&#146;s lot in Detroit in February. The vehicle has failed to generate the sales that Ford&#146;s big sport utility vehicles once did. 2007 DETROIT, May 1 — Is the Edge giving Ford the edge it was hoping for? Skip to next paragraph At the very least, the new crossover vehicle is keeping sales at the Ford Motor Company from dropping even more than they already are this year, at a time when the company is pulling back on unprofitable sales to rental-car companies. Ford is meeting the expectations it set for the Edge when the vehicle went on sale in December. But the Edge is not generating the revenue of the big sport utility vehicles that once fueled Ford’s profits, and it is not drawing the new customers that the company will need to bounce back from its worst loss in history — $12.7 billion last year. Ford’s falling sales have allowed the Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan to replace it as the second-largest seller of vehicles in the United States, after General Motors, through the first four months. And there is the question of buzz: Ford has pulled out all the stops to promote the Edge, with television ads directed by the playwright David Mamet in its latest attempt to get attention for the vehicle. Yet there are already lease deals available for the Edge, and some Ford insiders are concerned that its price, which starts at $25,995, is too high to sustain current sales levels once the vehicle’s novelty wears off — further proof that in today’s ultra-competitive car market, automakers have only a brief window to make a splash. Since arriving at dealerships in December, the Edge has been one of the few bright spots for Ford. On Tuesday, when automakers reported sales for April, Ford said its overall sales in April fell 7 percent on a selling-day adjusted basis; a distinction made because a year ago, there were two more selling days in April. Without the Edge and two other new crossovers in its lineup, Ford’s decline last month would have been 12 percent, the worst among major automakers. Ford has sold 33,600 units of the Edge so far this year, on pace for its goal of selling 100,000 units in all of 2007. But the company’s chief sales analyst, George Pipas, said many of those had been bought by people who already owned Fords. “The products that are most traded in are other Ford products,” Mr. Pipas said. “It’s retaining Ford buyers who were in traditional S.U.V.’s that are moving into another category.” To be sure, Ford needed vehicles that could keep its customers from defecting to other brands, particularly as high gasoline prices lead consumers to seek more fuel-efficient vehicles. But the Edge alone can do little to help Ford reach its goal of earning a profit in North America by 2009. “Crossovers are not the cash cows that the Ford Explorers and Expeditions were,” said Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, the industry research company based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. “There’s just not enough volume there for Ford to make up for what they’ve lost,” Mr. Pinelli said. “Even if the Edge is doing incredibly well, the profit contribution isn’t going to be terrific, and there aren’t going to be enough of them to move the scale from the loss side to the profit side.” The Edge was not enough to stop Ford’s market share from falling to 17 percent from 18 percent a year ago, according to Autodata; the decline was the largest among all major automakers. G.M.’s market share slipped to 23 percent from 23.5 percent, while the Chrysler Group had a rare increase, to 14.4 percent from 13.1 percent. Toyota leads all automakers in worldwide sales. Chrysler, which could be sold in the coming months by its German parent, DaimlerChrysler, surprised analysts by saying its April sales rose 10 percent. Chrysler executives attributed the gain to a well-organized incentive program, including free DVD players in its minivans and discounts on the Dodge Ram pickup, as well as a successful 96-hour sale at the end of the month. “We were just very fortunate to catch the wind when we did in April,” said Steven J. Landry, Chrysler’s executive vice president for North American sales and global marketing. “We had a very strong close.” Meanwhile, Japanese automakers had an uncharacteristically weak month, with Honda’s sales down 1.6 percent and Nissan’s down 11.2 percent. Toyota posted a 3.7 percent sales increase, its lowest year-over-year gain since August 2004. Although Ford came in slightly ahead of it for the month, Toyota has sold nearly 5,000 more vehicles than Ford so far this year. Yet there are signs of some bumps in the road for Toyota, like an inventory that has grown 30 percent in the last year. Many of those unsold vehicles may be the new Tundra pickups; Toyota has sold about 43,000 Tundras since the truck went on sale in February, well below the pace needed to reach its goal of selling 200,000 this year. But because the Tundra makes more money for Toyota than the Edge does for Ford, the Edge cannot necessarily be called the more successful of the two. Still, Ford and its dealers say they are thrilled with the Edge. Mr. Pipas of Ford said it was competing well against crossover models from Toyota, Honda and Nissan. “The sales levels, really coming from having no brand recognition, are kind of in the same sandbox as three really great products that have established themselves over the course of several years,” Mr. Pipas said. “I don’t know if I thought we could get there that soon.” Ron Christiano, general manager of Cortese Ford in Rochester, said customers liked the Edge because it used less gas than an S.U.V. The Edge increased traffic to the dealership more quickly than Ford’s Fusion sedan, which has sold well since its introduction in 2005, he said. Correction: May 4, 2007 A picture in the auto sales chart in Business Day on Wednesday was published in error. It showed a Nissan Altima Coupe, which is not on the market yet, rather than the Altima sedan, which had a 12.4 percent drop in sales in April. (The error first occurred in the sales chart on Jan. 4.) Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot Ford Cut Loss In Quarter; U.S. Sales Fell Ford Chief Sticking to His Road Map for Turnaround Asia's Automakers Show Sizable March Sales Gains Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/02/automobiles/02auto.html?ex=1335758400&en=e45d2db87e68aa00&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot The Ford Edge crossover vehicles, introduced late last year, sat on a dealer&#146;s lot in Detroit in February. The vehicle has failed to generate the sales that Ford&#146;s big sport utility vehicles once did. 2007 DETROIT, May 1 — Is the Edge giving Ford the edge it was hoping for? the very least, the new crossover vehicle is keeping sales at the Ford Motor Company from dropping even more than they already are this year, at a time when the company is pulling back on unprofitable sales to rental-car companies. Ford is meeting the expectations it set for the Edge when the vehicle went on sale in December. But the Edge is not generating the revenue of the big sport utility vehicles that once fueled Ford’s profits, and it is not drawing the new customers that the company will need to bounce back from its worst loss in history — $12.7 billion last year. Ford’s falling sales have allowed the Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan to replace it as the second-largest seller of vehicles in the United States, after General Motors, through the first four months. And there is the question of buzz: Ford has pulled out all the stops to promote the Edge, with television ads directed by the playwright David Mamet in its latest attempt to get attention for the vehicle. Yet there are already lease deals available for the Edge, and some Ford insiders are concerned that its price, which starts at $25,995, is too high to sustain current sales levels once the vehicle’s novelty wears off — further proof that in today’s ultra-competitive car market, automakers have only a brief window to make a splash. Since arriving at dealerships in December, the Edge has been one of the few bright spots for Ford. On Tuesday, when automakers reported sales for April, Ford said its overall sales in April fell 7 percent on a selling-day adjusted basis; a distinction made because a year ago, there were two more selling days in April. Without the Edge and two other new crossovers in its lineup, Ford’s decline last month would have been 12 percent, the worst among major automakers. Ford has sold 33,600 units of the Edge so far this year, on pace for its goal of selling 100,000 units in all of 2007. But the company’s chief sales analyst, George Pipas, said many of those had been bought by people who already owned Fords. “The products that are most traded in are other Ford products,” Mr. Pipas said. “It’s retaining Ford buyers who were in traditional S.U.V.’s that are moving into another category.” To be sure, Ford needed vehicles that could keep its customers from defecting to other brands, particularly as high gasoline prices lead consumers to seek more fuel-efficient vehicles. But the Edge alone can do little to help Ford reach its goal of earning a profit in North America by 2009. “Crossovers are not the cash cows that the Ford Explorers and Expeditions were,” said Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, the industry research company based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. “There’s just not enough volume there for Ford to make up for what they’ve lost,” Mr. Pinelli said. “Even if the Edge is doing incredibly well, the profit contribution isn’t going to be terrific, and there aren’t going to be enough of them to move the scale from the loss side to the profit side.” The Edge was not enough to stop Ford’s market share from falling to 17 percent from 18 percent a year ago, according to Autodata; the decline was the largest among all major automakers. G.M.’s market share slipped to 23 percent from 23.5 percent, while the Chrysler Group had a rare increase, to 14.4 percent from 13.1 percent. Toyota leads all automakers in worldwide sales. Chrysler, which could be sold in the coming months by its German parent, DaimlerChrysler, surprised analysts by saying its April sales rose 10 percent. Chrysler executives attributed the gain to a well-organized incentive program, including free DVD players in its minivans and discounts on the Dodge Ram pickup, as well as a successful 96-hour sale at the end of the month. “We were just very fortunate to catch the wind when we did in April,” said Steven J. Landry, Chrysler’s executive vice president for North American sales and global marketing. “We had a very strong close.” Meanwhile, Japanese automakers had an uncharacteristically weak month, with Honda’s sales down 1.6 percent and Nissan’s down 11.2 percent. Toyota posted a 3.7 percent sales increase, its lowest year-over-year gain since August 2004. Although Ford came in slightly ahead of it for the month, Toyota has sold nearly 5,000 more vehicles than Ford so far this year. Yet there are signs of some bumps in the road for Toyota, like an inventory that has grown 30 percent in the last year. Many of those unsold vehicles may be the new Tundra pickups; Toyota has sold about 43,000 Tundras since the truck went on sale in February, well below the pace needed to reach its goal of selling 200,000 this year. But because the Tundra makes more money for Toyota than the Edge does for Ford, the Edge cannot necessarily be called the more successful of the two. Still, Ford and its dealers say they are thrilled with the Edge. Mr. Pipas of Ford said it was competing well against crossover models from Toyota, Honda and Nissan. “The sales levels, really coming from having no brand recognition, are kind of in the same sandbox as three really great products that have established themselves over the course of several years,” Mr. Pipas said. “I don’t know if I thought we could get there that soon.” Ron Christiano, general manager of Cortese Ford in Rochester, said customers liked the Edge because it used less gas than an S.U.V. The Edge increased traffic to the dealership more quickly than Ford’s Fusion sedan, which has sold well since its introduction in 2005, he said. Correction: May 4, 2007 A picture in the auto sales chart in Business Day on Wednesday was published in error. It showed a Nissan Altima Coupe, which is not on the market yet, rather than the Altima sedan, which had a 12.4 percent drop in sales in April. (The error first occurred in the sales chart on Jan. 4.) Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot Ford Cut Loss In Quarter; U.S. Sales Fell Ford Chief Sticking to His Road Map for Turnaround Asia's Automakers Show Sizable March Sales Gains Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/06CARF.html?ex=1336104000&en=eebca09400a26c57&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss It&#8217;s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth - the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Thad Allender for the P. Wolfe found that his used Honda had been badly damaged in an accident, which a Carfax report failed to mention. 2007 AN Ohio judge will decide on Friday whether to approve the settlement of a class-action suit against Carfax in which consumers could receive coupons worth about $20 and the lawyers representing them $566,000. The suit claims that Carfax, which sells vehicle histories to consumers worried about buying used cars, deceived customers by concealing the limits on the information it collects about crash damage. Some consumer groups oppose the settlement, saying consumers get no meaningful compensation and Carfax is not being forced to make clear in what way its information is limited. "Carfax wins the most," said Ronald Frederick of Cleveland, one of several lawyers who have filed a brief objecting to the settlement on behalf of Carfax customers and the Center for Auto Safety. William B. Federman of Oklahoma City, one of the lawyers who filed the suit and reached the agreement with Carfax, said consumers would be receiving the best possible deal because of a legal technicality that could have resulted in the court dismissing the lawsuit, which would have forced each consumer harmed by Carfax to file an individual suit. Carfax agreed to the settlement, but has denied wrongdoing. "Nowhere do we claim we have every accident," said Larry Gamache, a Carfax spokesman. "We can't even get our heads around how many accidents happen in the United States. There are a significant portion that go unreported." The suit claims that Carfax leads consumers to believe they are getting a thorough check of a vehicle's history, but Carfax did not have access to police accident reports "in almost half of the states in the United States." Indeed, in a deposition taken in 2003 by Rob Treinen, a lawyer from Albuquerque, for an unrelated suit, George C. Bounacos, Carfax's vice president for customer operations, said at that time that the company was getting police accident reports from about only half of the states. The class-action suit said Carfax did not receive reports from Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Mississippi, Nevada, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia. Mr. Gamache, the Carfax spokesman, said Carfax had improved its data collection since the suit was filed in 2004. "We get information contained in police accident reports from all these states," he said. As part of the proposed settlement, consumers who bought a report from Carfax before Oct. 27, 2006, when the settlement got preliminary approval by the court, would receive a coupon that provides them with two free Carfax vehicle history reports in the first year after final approval of the settlement or one free report within two years. Clarence M. Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, an advocacy group based in Washington, said the settlement did not give consumers anything to compensate them for their problems and financial losses. One of the consumers objecting to the settlement is David P. Wolfe of Lawrence, Kan. "It is like giving me nothing." Mr. Wolfe said he bought a Honda Civic in Texas relying on a Carfax report. A Honda dealer told him later that the car had been so badly damaged in a crash it was not safe to drive. Mr. Wolfe said he did not want the coupon. Should the settlement be approved, Carfax customers who purchased reports before Oct. 27, 2006, would lose the right to sue the company, except those who have already written and asked to be excluded from the class. However, the proposed agreement does not require Carfax to notify all consumers affected by the settlement. The company only has to send e-mail messages about the settlement to customers who bought Carfax reports from Oct. 27, 2005, to Oct. 27, 2006, because Mr. Gamache said the parties agreed that notifying customers for that year was enough. Lawyers objecting to the settlement said that means most customers would not know that they had lost their right to sue the company individually. Mr. Federman also said a legal technicality could have forced the case to be argued in Virginia if there had been no settlement because the fine print in the Carfax purchase agreement says courts in Virginia, where the company is based, must be used for legal disputes. Virginia, he said, does not allow consumer class-action suits, so each Carfax customer would have had to file a suit instead of being members of the class. But the Ohio court already considered that issue, rejecting a Carfax request to move the case to Virginia courts. The judge who will rule on the settlement, Andrew D. Logan of the Court of Common Pleas for Trumbull County, said the case would be tried in Ohio. Mr. Federman said the issue was still relevant because Carfax could still appeal that decision. Carfax must "change their business model," he said, and make it clearer on its Web site, carfax.com, that there are limits to its information. If the settlement is approved, Carfax will state that its reports "may not have the complete history of every vehicle." Those who object to the settlement said Carfax should be forced to clearly list its limits state by state. "It is very misleading," said Deepak Gupta, a lawyer for the consumer group Public Citizen, who helped write the objectors' brief. "We are not saying Carfax is worthless — far from it. But people need to know what information they have and what information they don't have and whether they need to supplement Carfax with actual inspections by mechanics," he said. He said the settlement failed consumers on every crucial point. "The people the case was supposed to be brought to benefit don't get anything," he said. "The class-action system isn't going to function if these kinds of settlements are allowed to stand." Judge Logan has already given the settlement preliminary approval. If he approves the settlement, consumers eager for their Carfax coupons should not delay. Under the current plan, requests must be postmarked no later than May 27. Details are available at It's the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth High Court Puts Limits On Patents National Briefing | West: California: Suit Over Emissions Is Threatened SIDEBAR; When Lawyers and Juries Mete Out Punishment Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/06CARF.html?ex=1336104000&en=eebca09400a26c57&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss It&#8217;s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Thad Allender for the P. Wolfe found that his used Honda had been badly damaged in an accident, which a Carfax report failed to mention. 2007 AN Ohio judge will decide on Friday whether to approve the settlement of a class-action suit against Carfax in which consumers could receive coupons worth about $20 and the lawyers representing them $566,000. The suit claims that Carfax, which sells vehicle histories to consumers worried about buying used cars, deceived customers by concealing the limits on the information it collects about crash damage. Some consumer groups oppose the settlement, saying consumers get no meaningful compensation and Carfax is not being forced to make clear in what way its information is limited. "Carfax wins the most," said Ronald Frederick of Cleveland, one of several lawyers who have filed a brief objecting to the settlement on behalf of Carfax customers and the Center for Auto Safety. William B. Federman of Oklahoma City, one of the lawyers who filed the suit and reached the agreement with Carfax, said consumers would be receiving the best possible deal because of a legal technicality that could have resulted in the court dismissing the lawsuit, which would have forced each consumer harmed by Carfax to file an individual suit. Carfax agreed to the settlement, but has denied wrongdoing. "Nowhere do we claim we have every accident," said Larry Gamache, a Carfax spokesman. "We can't even get our heads around how many accidents happen in the United States. There are a significant portion that go unreported." The suit claims that Carfax leads consumers to believe they are getting a thorough check of a vehicle's history, but Carfax did not have access to police accident reports "in almost half of the states in the United States." Indeed, in a deposition taken in 2003 by Rob Treinen, a lawyer from Albuquerque, for an unrelated suit, George C. Bounacos, Carfax's vice president for customer operations, said at that time that the company was getting police accident reports from about only half of the states. The class-action suit said Carfax did not receive reports from Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Mississippi, Nevada, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia. Mr. Gamache, the Carfax spokesman, said Carfax had improved its data collection since the suit was filed in 2004. "We get information contained in police accident reports from all these states," he said. As part of the proposed settlement, consumers who bought a report from Carfax before Oct. 27, 2006, when the settlement got preliminary approval by the court, would receive a coupon that provides them with two free Carfax vehicle history reports in the first year after final approval of the settlement or one free report within two years. Clarence M. Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, an advocacy group based in Washington, said the settlement did not give consumers anything to compensate them for their problems and financial losses. One of the consumers objecting to the settlement is David P. Wolfe of Lawrence, Kan. "It is like giving me nothing." Mr. Wolfe said he bought a Honda Civic in Texas relying on a Carfax report. A Honda dealer told him later that the car had been so badly damaged in a crash it was not safe to drive. Mr. Wolfe said he did not want the coupon. Should the settlement be approved, Carfax customers who purchased reports before Oct. 27, 2006, would lose the right to sue the company, except those who have already written and asked to be excluded from the class. However, the proposed agreement does not require Carfax to notify all consumers affected by the settlement. The company only has to send e-mail messages about the settlement to customers who bought Carfax reports from Oct. 27, 2005, to Oct. 27, 2006, because Mr. Gamache said the parties agreed that notifying customers for that year was enough. Lawyers objecting to the settlement said that means most customers would not know that they had lost their right to sue the company individually. Mr. Federman also said a legal technicality could have forced the case to be argued in Virginia if there had been no settlement because the fine print in the Carfax purchase agreement says courts in Virginia, where the company is based, must be used for legal disputes. Virginia, he said, does not allow consumer class-action suits, so each Carfax customer would have had to file a suit instead of being members of the class. But the Ohio court already considered that issue, rejecting a Carfax request to move the case to Virginia courts. The judge who will rule on the settlement, Andrew D. Logan of the Court of Common Pleas for Trumbull County, said the case would be tried in Ohio. Mr. Federman said the issue was still relevant because Carfax could still appeal that decision. Carfax must "change their business model," he said, and make it clearer on its Web site, carfax.com, that there are limits to its information. If the settlement is approved, Carfax will state that its reports "may not have the complete history of every vehicle." Those who object to the settlement said Carfax should be forced to clearly list its limits state by state. "It is very misleading," said Deepak Gupta, a lawyer for the consumer group Public Citizen, who helped write the objectors' brief. "We are not saying Carfax is worthless — far from it. But people need to know what information they have and what information they don't have and whether they need to supplement Carfax with actual inspections by mechanics," he said. He said the settlement failed consumers on every crucial point. "The people the case was supposed to be brought to benefit don't get anything," he said. "The class-action system isn't going to function if these kinds of settlements are allowed to stand." Judge Logan has already given the settlement preliminary approval. If he approves the settlement, consumers eager for their Carfax coupons should not delay. Under the current plan, requests must be postmarked no later than May 27. Details are available at It's the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth High Court Puts Limits On Patents National Briefing | West: California: Suit Over Emissions Is Threatened SIDEBAR; When Lawyers and Juries Mete Out Punishment Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/06USED.html?ex=1336104000&en=792ac9c4021c8504&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. - Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Left and top right, Bridget Barrett for Courtesy of Dani K. Liblang Certification for Paulette Day&#146;s Monte Carlo, top right. Left, Ms. Day with her car, which was rebuilt using parts from the front of one Monte Carlo and the rear of another. 2007 GETTING halves of two cars was not what Paulette Day expected when she bought a red 2004 Chevrolet Monte Carlo that year from a dealership near Detroit for $22,000. The car was used, but it was a &#8220;G.M. certified&#8221; car, meaning it had supposedly passed a rigorous inspection by the dealer. As General Motors says in its marketing material, buying a certified car means &#8220;the reliability of new and the affordability of used.&#8221; Not in this case. Ms. Day said she became suspicious about the car after noticing the paint did not match. After a mechanic put the car on a lift and saw the welds, Ms. Day learned that it included pieces from the front of one Monte Carlo and the rear of another, both seriously damaged in crashes. &#8220;I thought being certified, there are supposed to be so many checkpoints to make sure the car is safe,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I think they skipped over all of it. They would have had to notice that.&#8221; Certified used cars have become popular over the last five years, favored by consumers worried about getting a lemon when they buy used. A guarantee from an automaker that the car checks out is peace of mind for which an increasing number of people are willing to pay extra, sometimes $2,000 or more. But some consumers are finding that certified does not protect them and some, like Ms. Day, are filing lawsuits. Robert Minton, a G.M. spokesman, said the automaker would not comment on Ms. Day&#8217;s case. Three telephone calls to the dealership, Rowan Pontiac GMC in Southgate, Mich., were not returned. Automakers said buying a certified vehicle was the next best thing to buying new and that, in general, customers have been pleased with the programs. Indeed, most consumers who buy vehicles certified by automakers say they are substantially more satisfied with their vehicles than those who bought comparable used vehicles, said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing Research, a firm in Bandon, Ore., that studies buying habits. Certified vehicles &#8220;pretty much matched the satisfaction numbers you see from new cars,&#8221; he said. Last year, new-car dealers sold about six million used vehicles that were one to four years old. About 1.7 million of those vehicles were certified, he said. Automakers said that more than 100 items were inspected before a vehicle could be certified. Many involve major mechanical components and the frame. However, some of the inspection items are insignificant, like checking windshield-washer fluid, said Jack Gillis, director of public affairs for the Consumer Federation of America. If problems were found, the automakers said they had to be fixed for the vehicle to be listed as certified. Certification programs, which vary from automaker to automaker, usually cover current models and the previous four or five model years. Vehicles must have relatively low mileage, often less than 60,000 miles. The automakers&#8217; provide inspection guidelines and the extended warranty that comes with the certification, for which they charge the dealer several hundred dollars. The dealers conduct the actual inspections and decide how much more to charge the buyer for a certified vehicle. On average, a certified used car costs about $2,200 more than one that is not certified, CNW found. One problem for consumers is that there are no industry standards to define what certified means. Anyone from a major new-car dealer to the owner of a small used-car lot can say a vehicle is certified. Also, most automakers allow vehicles that have been in crashes to be certified if the damage was properly repaired and did not involve damage to the frame. &#8220;So long as the damage has been repaired, most vehicles can be certified,&#8221; said Virginia Y. Calder&#243;n, a San Diego lawyer who often handles complaints about certified cars. &#8220;You always have to be concerned about that.&#8221; In some lawsuits automakers have denied responsibility by saying the dealer &#151; not the automaker &#151; certified the vehicle. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Consumer Advocates Seek Uniform Faulty-Car Laws Auto Reliability and Safety Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/06USED.html?ex=1336104000&en=792ac9c4021c8504&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Left and top right, Bridget Barrett for Courtesy of Dani K. Liblang Certification for Paulette Day&#146;s Monte Carlo, top right. Left, Ms. Day with her car, which was rebuilt using parts from the front of one Monte Carlo and the rear of another. 2007 GETTING halves of two cars was not what Paulette Day expected when she bought a red 2004 Chevrolet Monte Carlo that year from a dealership near Detroit for $22,000. The car was used, but it was a &#8220;G.M. certified&#8221; car, meaning it had supposedly passed a rigorous inspection by the dealer. As General Motors says in its marketing material, buying a certified car means &#8220;the reliability of new and the affordability of used.&#8221; Not in this case. Ms. Day said she became suspicious about the car after noticing the paint did not match. After a mechanic put the car on a lift and saw the welds, Ms. Day learned that it included pieces from the front of one Monte Carlo and the rear of another, both seriously damaged in crashes. &#8220;I thought being certified, there are supposed to be so many checkpoints to make sure the car is safe,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I think they skipped over all of it. They would have had to notice that.&#8221; Certified used cars have become popular over the last five years, favored by consumers worried about getting a lemon when they buy used. A guarantee from an automaker that the car checks out is peace of mind for which an increasing number of people are willing to pay extra, sometimes $2,000 or more. But some consumers are finding that certified does not protect them and some, like Ms. Day, are filing lawsuits. Robert Minton, a G.M. spokesman, said the automaker would not comment on Ms. Day&#8217;s case. Three telephone calls to the dealership, Rowan Pontiac GMC in Southgate, Mich., were not returned. Automakers said buying a certified vehicle was the next best thing to buying new and that, in general, customers have been pleased with the programs. Indeed, most consumers who buy vehicles certified by automakers say they are substantially more satisfied with their vehicles than those who bought comparable used vehicles, said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing Research, a firm in Bandon, Ore., that studies buying habits. Certified vehicles &#8220;pretty much matched the satisfaction numbers you see from new cars,&#8221; he said. Last year, new-car dealers sold about six million used vehicles that were one to four years old. About 1.7 million of those vehicles were certified, he said. Automakers said that more than 100 items were inspected before a vehicle could be certified. Many involve major mechanical components and the frame. However, some of the inspection items are insignificant, like checking windshield-washer fluid, said Jack Gillis, director of public affairs for the Consumer Federation of America. If problems were found, the automakers said they had to be fixed for the vehicle to be listed as certified. Certification programs, which vary from automaker to automaker, usually cover current models and the previous four or five model years. Vehicles must have relatively low mileage, often less than 60,000 miles. The automakers&#8217; provide inspection guidelines and the extended warranty that comes with the certification, for which they charge the dealer several hundred dollars. The dealers conduct the actual inspections and decide how much more to charge the buyer for a certified vehicle. On average, a certified used car costs about $2,200 more than one that is not certified, CNW found. One problem for consumers is that there are no industry standards to define what certified means. Anyone from a major new-car dealer to the owner of a small used-car lot can say a vehicle is certified. Also, most automakers allow vehicles that have been in crashes to be certified if the damage was properly repaired and did not involve damage to the frame. &#8220;So long as the damage has been repaired, most vehicles can be certified,&#8221; said Virginia Y. Calder&#243;n, a San Diego lawyer who often handles complaints about certified cars. &#8220;You always have to be concerned about that.&#8221; In some lawsuits automakers have denied responsibility by saying the dealer &#151; not the automaker &#151; certified the vehicle. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Consumer Advocates Seek Uniform Faulty-Car Laws Auto Reliability and Safety Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/autoreviews/06AUTO.html?ex=1336104000&en=fe2c9eb38f4d9925&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - 2007 Toyota Tundra - Test Drive - the Wheel | 2007 Toyota Tundra Going Where Toyota’s Never Gone Before The 2007 Toyota Tundra Double Cab. 2007 LAST year, when Nathalie Guiraudet heard that Toyota was making the next-generation Tundra much bigger, she began to fret about her vehicular future. Skip to next paragraph She thought the size of her 2002 Tundra was perfect for her needs. She could haul plenty of hay for her horse, Kismet. It was easy to back up (the truck, not Kismet) and the fuel economy was acceptable (both the Tundra and Kismet). But Toyota has its own needs, and these include growth. By finally offering a pickup big and powerful enough to compete with the Ford F-150 and the Chevrolet Silverado, Toyota says it might double Tundra sales, which totaled an unimpressive 124,500 in 2006, just a fraction of what Chevrolet or Ford sold. While Ms. Guiraudet, who lives in Bethlehem, N.H., a town of 2,300 about 150 miles north of Boston, did not wish to interfere with Toyota&#8217;s apparent plan for galactic domination, she was dismayed. &#8220;It is like every good television show I ever liked,&#8221; she said. &#8220;It gets taken off the air.&#8221; So she responded to Toyota&#8217;s plan with a pre-emptive purchase: she bought a 2006 Tundra Access Cab. Now the 2007 Tundra is on sale, assembled at plants in Indiana and Texas. The new model is about 5 inches taller, 4 inches wider and 10 inches longer than its equivalent predecessors. Gone is the front-end styling so reserved it suggested a meek effort to assimilate, not cause trouble. The 2007 design could not be more confrontational if it had revolvers mounted on the fenders like one of Roy Rogers&#8217;s cars. For Tundra, three is a recurring theme. There are three bed sizes, three cabs and three engines. The standard bed is 6-foot-7; the long bed is 8-foot-2; and the short bed is 5-foot-7. There is a Regular Cab with comfortable seating for two and a surprising amount of cargo space behind the seats. The Double Cab has just enough room for four six-foot adults to be comfortable; access to the rear is through short forward-hinged doors. Last is the four-door CrewMax, imposing because the cab is so large it suggests an auditorium on wheels. Inside there is so much room it feels more like a large sport utility than a pickup. Its amazing 44.5 inches of rear legroom is almost 10 inches more than the Double Cab&#8217;s, making it entirely suitable for family transportation. A 236-horsepower 4-liter V-6 is available, but only on two-wheel drive Regular Cab and Double Cab models. With a five-speed automatic, it is rated at 17 m.p.g. in town and 20 on the highway, which is less than last year. A 4.7-liter V-8 is rated at 271 horsepower at 5,400 r.p.m. and 313 pound-feet of torque at 3,400 r.p.m. It comes with a five-speed automatic. Despite the increase in the Tundra&#8217;s size, the fuel economy estimate is unchanged from last year: 15 m.p.g. city and 18 highway for a four-wheel drive. New this year is a 5.7-liter V-8 rated at 381 horsepower at 5,600 r.p.m. and 401 pound-feet of torque at 3,600 r.p.m. It comes with a six-speed automatic. Demand for this engine &#151; more than 70 percent of new Tundras have it &#151; has been greater than expected. With four-wheel drive, this engine is rated at 14 m.p.g. city and 18 highway. I averaged 18 m.p.g. on a 239-mile Interstate cruise at 65 m.p.h. Prices on the Tundra start at $22,935 for a two-wheel drive Regular Cab. The least expensive four-wheel-drive model is a Regular Cab, at $27,125. The most expensive Tundra is $42,495: that&#8217;s the CrewMax with four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The Tundra&#8217;s base prices are high compared with the new Chevrolet Silverado&#8217;s. But the Tundra offers more standard equipment on base models, including life savers like an electronic stability control to deal with skids and side curtains to provide head protection in a side-impact crash. My test truck was a Double Cab in the midlevel SR5 trim. It had the standard bed, four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The base price was $31,805. Options included an upgraded stereo and power front seats, bringing the total to $34,648. Toyota says the design and engineering were done in the United States, so it is not surprising that the front seats are wide American-size berths. have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. THE WHEEL/2007 Toyota Tundra; Going Where Toyota's Never Gone Before Toyota Deepens Discounts on Its New Pickup Redesigned Toyota Pickup to Cost More Than Rivals' Trucks Bush Expected to Make Call For Improved Fuel Economy Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/autoreviews/06AUTO.html?ex=1336104000&en=fe2c9eb38f4d9925&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - 2007 Toyota Tundra - Test Drive the Wheel | 2007 Toyota Tundra Going Where Toyota’s Never Gone Before The 2007 Toyota Tundra Double Cab. 2007 LAST year, when Nathalie Guiraudet heard that Toyota was making the next-generation Tundra much bigger, she began to fret about her vehicular future. thought the size of her 2002 Tundra was perfect for her needs. She could haul plenty of hay for her horse, Kismet. It was easy to back up (the truck, not Kismet) and the fuel economy was acceptable (both the Tundra and Kismet). But Toyota has its own needs, and these include growth. By finally offering a pickup big and powerful enough to compete with the Ford F-150 and the Chevrolet Silverado, Toyota says it might double Tundra sales, which totaled an unimpressive 124,500 in 2006, just a fraction of what Chevrolet or Ford sold. While Ms. Guiraudet, who lives in Bethlehem, N.H., a town of 2,300 about 150 miles north of Boston, did not wish to interfere with Toyota&#8217;s apparent plan for galactic domination, she was dismayed. &#8220;It is like every good television show I ever liked,&#8221; she said. &#8220;It gets taken off the air.&#8221; So she responded to Toyota&#8217;s plan with a pre-emptive purchase: she bought a 2006 Tundra Access Cab. Now the 2007 Tundra is on sale, assembled at plants in Indiana and Texas. The new model is about 5 inches taller, 4 inches wider and 10 inches longer than its equivalent predecessors. Gone is the front-end styling so reserved it suggested a meek effort to assimilate, not cause trouble. The 2007 design could not be more confrontational if it had revolvers mounted on the fenders like one of Roy Rogers&#8217;s cars. For Tundra, three is a recurring theme. There are three bed sizes, three cabs and three engines. The standard bed is 6-foot-7; the long bed is 8-foot-2; and the short bed is 5-foot-7. There is a Regular Cab with comfortable seating for two and a surprising amount of cargo space behind the seats. The Double Cab has just enough room for four six-foot adults to be comfortable; access to the rear is through short forward-hinged doors. Last is the four-door CrewMax, imposing because the cab is so large it suggests an auditorium on wheels. Inside there is so much room it feels more like a large sport utility than a pickup. Its amazing 44.5 inches of rear legroom is almost 10 inches more than the Double Cab&#8217;s, making it entirely suitable for family transportation. A 236-horsepower 4-liter V-6 is available, but only on two-wheel drive Regular Cab and Double Cab models. With a five-speed automatic, it is rated at 17 m.p.g. in town and 20 on the highway, which is less than last year. A 4.7-liter V-8 is rated at 271 horsepower at 5,400 r.p.m. and 313 pound-feet of torque at 3,400 r.p.m. It comes with a five-speed automatic. Despite the increase in the Tundra&#8217;s size, the fuel economy estimate is unchanged from last year: 15 m.p.g. city and 18 highway for a four-wheel drive. New this year is a 5.7-liter V-8 rated at 381 horsepower at 5,600 r.p.m. and 401 pound-feet of torque at 3,600 r.p.m. It comes with a six-speed automatic. Demand for this engine &#151; more than 70 percent of new Tundras have it &#151; has been greater than expected. With four-wheel drive, this engine is rated at 14 m.p.g. city and 18 highway. I averaged 18 m.p.g. on a 239-mile Interstate cruise at 65 m.p.h. Prices on the Tundra start at $22,935 for a two-wheel drive Regular Cab. The least expensive four-wheel-drive model is a Regular Cab, at $27,125. The most expensive Tundra is $42,495: that&#8217;s the CrewMax with four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The Tundra&#8217;s base prices are high compared with the new Chevrolet Silverado&#8217;s. But the Tundra offers more standard equipment on base models, including life savers like an electronic stability control to deal with skids and side curtains to provide head protection in a side-impact crash. My test truck was a Double Cab in the midlevel SR5 trim. It had the standard bed, four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The base price was $31,805. Options included an upgraded stereo and power front seats, bringing the total to $34,648. Toyota says the design and engineering were done in the United States, so it is not surprising that the front seats are wide American-size berths. THE WHEEL/2007 Toyota Tundra; Going Where Toyota's Never Gone Before Toyota Deepens Discounts on Its New Pickup Redesigned Toyota Pickup to Cost More Than Rivals' Trucks Bush Expected to Make Call For Improved Fuel Economy Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/us/politics/08obama.html Obama Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy - Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy Senator Barack Obama said Monday in Detroit that he wanted to address automakers on their turf with his criticism and his proposals. 2007 DETROIT, May 7 — Senator of Illinois delivered a stern message to Detroit auto companies on Monday, saying they had done little to lessen the nation’s dependence on foreign oil and needed to improve the fuel efficiency of their vehicles. Skip to next paragraph The latest political news from around the nation. Sounding at times like a teacher scolding a lazy but promising student, Mr. Obama at the same time proposed incentives to help General Motors, Ford and Chrysler out of a lingering slump that has resulted in dozens of plant closings and the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs this decade. Appearing before a luncheon held by the Detroit Economic Club, Mr. Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate, received a standing ovation when he was introduced by Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, and again at the close of his remarks, which were broadcast live by local television stations. Mr. Obama, making his first campaign visit to Michigan, said he wanted to be blunt with Detroit auto companies on their home turf. Chief executives of the auto companies were not in attendance. “I’m making this proposal here today because I don’t believe in making proposals in California and giving a different speech in Michigan,” he said. His goal “is not to destroy the industry, but to help bring it into the 21st century,” he said. Under Mr. Obama’s plan, which he said would save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, he proposed a 4 percent a year increase in fuel economy standards beginning in 2009, or the equivalent of about one mile per gallon per year. By 2022, the fuel economy standard for both cars and light trucks would be 40 miles per gallon, according to the plan. The Bush administration has proposed a similar method to raise the fuel economy standard over the next few years. The current federal standards are 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 24 miles per gallon for light trucks. While the American standard for cars has not increased in the last 20 years, both China and Japan have higher standards, Mr. Obama said. He maintained that cars in Japan typically achieved the equivalent of 45 miles per gallon. In fact, the average fuel economy in 2006 for cars sold by all manufacturers in the United States was slightly more than 30 miles per gallon, higher than the federal standard requires. But automakers’ overall fuel economy was 24.2 miles per gallon, because light trucks, including S.U.V.’s, pickups and minivans, account for slightly more than half the vehicles sold in the United States. The discussion over the standards accelerated last month, when the Supreme Court ruled that the had the ability to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. The primary way to do so, experts say, is by raising fuel efficiency. Mr. Obama also proposed that fuel efficiency standards for cars be rewritten so that mileage requirements are set according to vehicle size, rather than one sweeping standard for all sizes of cars. The current method benefits Japanese auto companies, whose lineups are not as varied as their Detroit rivals, said Mr. Obama, whose state is home to a Ford assembly plant, as well as one owned by the Japanese automaker Mitsubishi. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration took a similar step this decade in recalculating the fuel economy standard for light trucks. Detroit auto companies have backed that as an option for recalculating fuel economy standards for cars. As a carrot to the industry, Mr. Obama would provide up to $3 billion to Detroit auto companies and their suppliers to retool factories to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles. If the companies invest in these vehicles, Mr. Obama also would offer the Detroit companies assistance in dealing with their burden of paying for current and retired workers’ health care expenses, estimated at $1,500 per vehicle. But a spokesman for G.M., Greg Martin, said the automaker preferred to see a broader approach to soaring health care costs. “Health care is an issue that should be a national priority and not an issue unique to G.M.,” Mr. Martin said. Despite Mr. Obama’s sometimes harsh words Monday, the diverse audience interrupted him 10 times for applause. “I think it took a lot of courage to come to Detroit and lay it on the line,” said Peter Eckstein, a retired labor union economist from Ann Arbor, Mich. Leonard Mungo, a Detroit lawyer, said he was surprised to hear specific proposals for addressing the industry’s problems. “He’s saying, ‘You got yourselves into this mess, but now this is how we get out,’ ” Mr. Mungo said. Nick Bunkley contributed reporting. Scolds and Soothes Automakers Presidential Election of 2008 &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Towers in the Fog - 1992 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/us/politics/08obama.html Obama Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy Senator Barack Obama said Monday in Detroit that he wanted to address automakers on their turf with his criticism and his proposals. 2007 DETROIT, May 7 — Senator of Illinois delivered a stern message to Detroit auto companies on Monday, saying they had done little to lessen the nation’s dependence on foreign oil and needed to improve the fuel efficiency of their vehicles. latest political news from around the nation. Sounding at times like a teacher scolding a lazy but promising student, Mr. Obama at the same time proposed incentives to help General Motors, Ford and Chrysler out of a lingering slump that has resulted in dozens of plant closings and the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs this decade. Appearing before a luncheon held by the Detroit Economic Club, Mr. Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate, received a standing ovation when he was introduced by Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, and again at the close of his remarks, which were broadcast live by local television stations. Mr. Obama, making his first campaign visit to Michigan, said he wanted to be blunt with Detroit auto companies on their home turf. Chief executives of the auto companies were not in attendance. “I’m making this proposal here today because I don’t believe in making proposals in California and giving a different speech in Michigan,” he said. His goal “is not to destroy the industry, but to help bring it into the 21st century,” he said. Under Mr. Obama’s plan, which he said would save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, he proposed a 4 percent a year increase in fuel economy standards beginning in 2009, or the equivalent of about one mile per gallon per year. By 2022, the fuel economy standard for both cars and light trucks would be 40 miles per gallon, according to the plan. The Bush administration has proposed a similar method to raise the fuel economy standard over the next few years. The current federal standards are 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 24 miles per gallon for light trucks. While the American standard for cars has not increased in the last 20 years, both China and Japan have higher standards, Mr. Obama said. He maintained that cars in Japan typically achieved the equivalent of 45 miles per gallon. In fact, the average fuel economy in 2006 for cars sold by all manufacturers in the United States was slightly more than 30 miles per gallon, higher than the federal standard requires. But automakers’ overall fuel economy was 24.2 miles per gallon, because light trucks, including S.U.V.’s, pickups and minivans, account for slightly more than half the vehicles sold in the United States. The discussion over the standards accelerated last month, when the Supreme Court ruled that the had the ability to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. The primary way to do so, experts say, is by raising fuel efficiency. Mr. Obama also proposed that fuel efficiency standards for cars be rewritten so that mileage requirements are set according to vehicle size, rather than one sweeping standard for all sizes of cars. The current method benefits Japanese auto companies, whose lineups are not as varied as their Detroit rivals, said Mr. Obama, whose state is home to a Ford assembly plant, as well as one owned by the Japanese automaker Mitsubishi. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration took a similar step this decade in recalculating the fuel economy standard for light trucks. Detroit auto companies have backed that as an option for recalculating fuel economy standards for cars. As a carrot to the industry, Mr. Obama would provide up to $3 billion to Detroit auto companies and their suppliers to retool factories to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles. If the companies invest in these vehicles, Mr. Obama also would offer the Detroit companies assistance in dealing with their burden of paying for current and retired workers’ health care expenses, estimated at $1,500 per vehicle. But a spokesman for G.M., Greg Martin, said the automaker preferred to see a broader approach to soaring health care costs. “Health care is an issue that should be a national priority and not an issue unique to G.M.,” Mr. Martin said. Despite Mr. Obama’s sometimes harsh words Monday, the diverse audience interrupted him 10 times for applause. “I think it took a lot of courage to come to Detroit and lay it on the line,” said Peter Eckstein, a retired labor union economist from Ann Arbor, Mich. Leonard Mungo, a Detroit lawyer, said he was surprised to hear specific proposals for addressing the industry’s problems. “He’s saying, ‘You got yourselves into this mess, but now this is how we get out,’ ” Mr. Mungo said. Nick Bunkley contributed reporting. Scolds and Soothes Automakers Presidential Election of 2008 &#x00bb; Keepsake Inside Page Reprint
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/automobiles/11ford.html?ex=1336536000&en=b91443f77dbb23ff&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes - Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Bradley C. Brower/Bloomberg News Alan R. Mulally, left, Ford&#146;s chief executive, conferred with William Clay Ford, the executive chairman, at the annual shareholders&#146; meeting. 2007 WILMINGTON, Del., May 10 &#151; A group of shareholders took turns blaming the company&#8217;s executive chairman, William Clay Ford Jr. , at the annual meeting Thursday, criticizing every decision he made as the former chief executive except one. That was his decision last September to hire a executive, Alan R. Mulally, as his successor. Mr. Mulally, 61, a boyish-looking aeronautical engineer who worked for Boeing for 37 years and rose to become its senior vice president, was widely credited with rescuing its commercial airline division from its economic troubles after the events of 9/11. &#8220;Alan knows what it&#8217;s like to have your back to the wall, and fight your way out with a well-conceived plan and great execution,&#8221; Mr. Ford has said. Now Ford has its back to the wall, with a $12.7 billion loss in 2006, seven consecutive quarterly losses and a shrinking market share. Mr. Mulally, alternating between empathy with shareholder concerns and optimism for the company&#8217;s &#8220;Way Forward&#8221; recovery plan, urged the 79 shareholders who gathered for the meeting at the Hotel du Pont to have patience, and promised results &#8220;in the months and the years ahead.&#8221; &#8220;We are moving quickly and making real progress,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But it&#8217;s going to take time to turn things around.&#8221; The automaker, based in Detroit, has borrowed $23.5 billion to help finance accelerated product development and a reduction in operating costs that includes closing 16 plants and eliminating 44,000 jobs by 2012. A provision of the loan, which is secured by assets that include the company&#8217;s trademark blue oval logo, effectively bars Ford from paying dividends until 2013 or until the loan is paid off, a spokeswoman, Becky Sanch, said. Shareholders voting by proxy re-elected the 12 current board members with 95.9 percent of the votes cast. All seven shareholder proposals failed, including those calling for a reduction in greenhouse gases, performance-based compensation for executives and health care as a fiduciary duty. But support increased for a proposal to extinguish the Ford family&#8217;s 40 percent voting control through their supervoting shares by recapitalizing all outstanding stock to one vote per share. The proposal won 27.4 percent of the vote this year, up from 22.9 percent in 2006. After the meeting, Mr. Mulally told reporters that as a global company, Ford was &#8220;absolutely supporting free trade,&#8221; notwithstanding the increasing market share in North America of its rival Toyota. He also acknowledged that there would be industry consolidation because of market overcapacity. When asked if there had been talk of a merger at Ford, Ms. Sanch said, &#8220;There has been a lot of speculation. But it&#8217;s nothing we&#8217;re interested in. We&#8217;re focused on turning around our business, not on any type of merger or acquisition.&#8221; She said she knew of no contact from a potential buyer. Give Ex-Chief The Blame For Ford Woes Mulally Names an Environmental Executive for Ford Ford Pays Chief $28 Million for 4 Months' Work Ford Chief Sticking to His Road Map for Turnaround Appointments and Executive Changes Ford, William Clay Jr Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/automobiles/11ford.html?ex=1336536000&en=b91443f77dbb23ff&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Bradley C. Brower/Bloomberg News Alan R. Mulally, left, Ford&#146;s chief executive, conferred with William Clay Ford, the executive chairman, at the annual shareholders&#146; meeting. 2007 WILMINGTON, Del., May 10 &#151; A group of shareholders took turns blaming the company&#8217;s executive chairman, William Clay Ford Jr. , at the annual meeting Thursday, criticizing every decision he made as the former chief executive except one. That was his decision last September to hire a executive, Alan R. Mulally, as his successor. Mr. Mulally, 61, a boyish-looking aeronautical engineer who worked for Boeing for 37 years and rose to become its senior vice president, was widely credited with rescuing its commercial airline division from its economic troubles after the events of 9/11. &#8220;Alan knows what it&#8217;s like to have your back to the wall, and fight your way out with a well-conceived plan and great execution,&#8221; Mr. Ford has said. Now Ford has its back to the wall, with a $12.7 billion loss in 2006, seven consecutive quarterly losses and a shrinking market share. Mr. Mulally, alternating between empathy with shareholder concerns and optimism for the company&#8217;s &#8220;Way Forward&#8221; recovery plan, urged the 79 shareholders who gathered for the meeting at the Hotel du Pont to have patience, and promised results &#8220;in the months and the years ahead.&#8221; &#8220;We are moving quickly and making real progress,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But it&#8217;s going to take time to turn things around.&#8221; The automaker, based in Detroit, has borrowed $23.5 billion to help finance accelerated product development and a reduction in operating costs that includes closing 16 plants and eliminating 44,000 jobs by 2012. A provision of the loan, which is secured by assets that include the company&#8217;s trademark blue oval logo, effectively bars Ford from paying dividends until 2013 or until the loan is paid off, a spokeswoman, Becky Sanch, said. Shareholders voting by proxy re-elected the 12 current board members with 95.9 percent of the votes cast. All seven shareholder proposals failed, including those calling for a reduction in greenhouse gases, performance-based compensation for executives and health care as a fiduciary duty. But support increased for a proposal to extinguish the Ford family&#8217;s 40 percent voting control through their supervoting shares by recapitalizing all outstanding stock to one vote per share. The proposal won 27.4 percent of the vote this year, up from 22.9 percent in 2006. After the meeting, Mr. Mulally told reporters that as a global company, Ford was &#8220;absolutely supporting free trade,&#8221; notwithstanding the increasing market share in North America of its rival Toyota. He also acknowledged that there would be industry consolidation because of market overcapacity. When asked if there had been talk of a merger at Ford, Ms. Sanch said, &#8220;There has been a lot of speculation. But it&#8217;s nothing we&#8217;re interested in. We&#8217;re focused on turning around our business, not on any type of merger or acquisition.&#8221; She said she knew of no contact from a potential buyer. Give Ex-Chief The Blame For Ford Woes Mulally Names an Environmental Executive for Ford Ford Pays Chief $28 Million for 4 Months' Work Ford Chief Sticking to His Road Map for Turnaround Appointments and Executive Changes Ford, William Clay Jr Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/othersports/11nascar.html?ex=1336536000&en=20eacad09b580c64&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent - Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Dale Earnhardt Jr. said he was leaving Dale Earnhardt Inc. so he could contend for championships. 2007 MOORESVILLE, N.C., May 10 — , the son of a legend and the most popular driver in , has put himself on the open market for 2008. His free agency will send ripples throughout the sport, potentially affecting driver salaries, merchandise sales and even television ratings, not to mention the balance of power among race teams. Skip to next paragraph Amy Conn/ Associated Press Dale Earnhardt, left, and his son Dale Jr., at Daytona International Speedway in 2001. Earnhardt Sr. died in a crash at Daytona that year. Earnhardt opened the door to all of that when he announced Thursday that he would leave Dale Earnhardt Inc. when his contract ends after this season. It was a stunning decision by Earnhardt, who has raced for his father’s team since his career began, winning 17 Cup races and two lower-level Busch Series championships. “At 32 years of age, the same as my father was when he made his final and most important career decision, it is time for me to compete on a consistent basis and contend for championships now,” Earnhardt said Thursday at a news conference at his JR Motorsports race shop. The announcement came after a year of negotiations that occasionally devolved into a public spat between Earnhardt and his stepmother, Teresa Earnhardt. She had taken over full ownership of the company after Dale Earnhardt died in a crash during the 2001 Daytona 500. It was Teresa Earnhardt’s stewardship, and Earnhardt’s belief that he could not win championships with D.E.I., that led to his departure. He has not won a race since May 6, 2006, and has only two victories since the start of 2005. “He needs to start winning again,” Humpy Wheeler, president of Lowe’s Motor Speedway and a longtime race promoter, said in a telephone interview. “He’s got to put himself in a position where he can win two or three races a year to keep that popularity, and he knows that. “Personalities drive all sports, and he is the most popular personality that we have. He accounts for a significant part of souvenir sales.” Maintaining that popularity will have an effect on everyone in the sport. “If Dale Jr. will wind up with a team that’s in contention to win races every week and contend for a championship, that’s got to help ticket sales at the gate, TV ratings, all those kinds of things,” Eddie Gossage, president of Texas Motor Speedway, said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of those things, a rising tide floats all boats.” Earnhardt is not the first Nascar driver to become a free agent. There are no rules limiting movement; it is relatively common for drivers to switch teams as contracts expire. But it is rare for a driver of Earnhardt’s stature, at the height of his career and popularity, to make himself available to other teams. to become a free agent. “A new paradigm has just been established in American motor sports,” Gossage wrote in an e-mail message. “Just as Andy Messersmith ushered in the era of modern-day free agency in major league baseball, Dale Jr. is establishing modern-day free agency in Nascar. Dale Jr. will now determine his full value on the open market and have the opportunity to make his own choices to put himself in a position to win races and championships. “Dale Jr.’s announcement is every bit as significant as A-Rod’s huge contract a few years back or ’s extraordinary contract signing last week with the Earnhardt said Thursday that this decision was not about money. He is looking to join a team that will help him win consistently. Kelley Earnhardt Elledge, Earnhardt’s sister and chief negotiator, said a number of teams had contacted them in recent months to express interest. They hope to have a deal done in 60 days, she said later. Earnhardt said he would listen to all offers but would work to remain with a Chevrolet team. Three Chevrolet teams are at the top of the sport: Hendrick Motorsports, Joe Gibbs Racing and Richard Childress Racing. Hendrick, though, has contracts with , Jimmie Johnson, Kyle Busch and Casey Mears and has sponsors through at least 2008. Nascar rules limit each owner to four drivers. Gibbs and Childress have three drivers apiece, but if Budweiser remains an Earnhardt sponsor that could be a problem. Gibbs does not want to be involved with an alcohol sponsorship and Childress has one with Jack Daniels, creating a conflict. “I think most everyone out there would say, ‘Yeah, he’d be a great fit here,’ ” J. D. Gibbs, president of Joe Gibbs Racing, said in a telephone interview. “I think for us, we’re just focusing kind of on what we’re doing now. Obviously he’s a big part of our sport, I think he could do about whatever he wants to do.” Earnhardt’s father won six of his seven championships for Childress. But Earnhardt would hesitate to drive the racecar that his father made famous. “I’ve got to do a little soul searching about how I feel about driving the No. 3 car,” he said. Earnhardt did not rule out driving a different racecar for Childress, though. He also could create a Cup team for JR Motorsports, although that is not the No. 1 option. Wherever he goes, the greatest impact could ultimately be felt at Dale Earnhardt Inc., which is losing the sport’s most marketable driver. “Well, the most classic statement that I’ve heard, and it came from : ‘What’s D.E.I. without Dale Jr.? A museum,’ ” said the three-time Cup champion Darrell Waltrip, who attended the news conference. “And that’s a pretty good analogy, I would say.” Teams Line Up to Make a Pitch for a Big Catch Sister Has Seat of Power as Earnhardt Drives On AUTO RACING; Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing &#x00bb; De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/othersports/11nascar.html?ex=1336536000&en=20eacad09b580c64&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Dale Earnhardt Jr. said he was leaving Dale Earnhardt Inc. so he could contend for championships. 2007 MOORESVILLE, N.C., May 10 — , the son of a legend and the most popular driver in , has put himself on the open market for 2008. His free agency will send ripples throughout the sport, potentially affecting driver salaries, merchandise sales and even television ratings, not to mention the balance of power among race teams. Conn/ Associated Press Dale Earnhardt, left, and his son Dale Jr., at Daytona International Speedway in 2001. Earnhardt Sr. died in a crash at Daytona that year. Earnhardt opened the door to all of that when he announced Thursday that he would leave Dale Earnhardt Inc. when his contract ends after this season. It was a stunning decision by Earnhardt, who has raced for his father’s team since his career began, winning 17 Cup races and two lower-level Busch Series championships. “At 32 years of age, the same as my father was when he made his final and most important career decision, it is time for me to compete on a consistent basis and contend for championships now,” Earnhardt said Thursday at a news conference at his JR Motorsports race shop. The announcement came after a year of negotiations that occasionally devolved into a public spat between Earnhardt and his stepmother, Teresa Earnhardt. She had taken over full ownership of the company after Dale Earnhardt died in a crash during the 2001 Daytona 500. It was Teresa Earnhardt’s stewardship, and Earnhardt’s belief that he could not win championships with D.E.I., that led to his departure. He has not won a race since May 6, 2006, and has only two victories since the start of 2005. “He needs to start winning again,” Humpy Wheeler, president of Lowe’s Motor Speedway and a longtime race promoter, said in a telephone interview. “He’s got to put himself in a position where he can win two or three races a year to keep that popularity, and he knows that. “Personalities drive all sports, and he is the most popular personality that we have. He accounts for a significant part of souvenir sales.” Maintaining that popularity will have an effect on everyone in the sport. “If Dale Jr. will wind up with a team that’s in contention to win races every week and contend for a championship, that’s got to help ticket sales at the gate, TV ratings, all those kinds of things,” Eddie Gossage, president of Texas Motor Speedway, said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of those things, a rising tide floats all boats.” Earnhardt is not the first Nascar driver to become a free agent. There are no rules limiting movement; it is relatively common for drivers to switch teams as contracts expire. But it is rare for a driver of Earnhardt’s stature, at the height of his career and popularity, to make himself available to other teams. to become a free agent. “A new paradigm has just been established in American motor sports,” Gossage wrote in an e-mail message. “Just as Andy Messersmith ushered in the era of modern-day free agency in major league baseball, Dale Jr. is establishing modern-day free agency in Nascar. Dale Jr. will now determine his full value on the open market and have the opportunity to make his own choices to put himself in a position to win races and championships. “Dale Jr.’s announcement is every bit as significant as A-Rod’s huge contract a few years back or ’s extraordinary contract signing last week with the Earnhardt said Thursday that this decision was not about money. He is looking to join a team that will help him win consistently. Kelley Earnhardt Elledge, Earnhardt’s sister and chief negotiator, said a number of teams had contacted them in recent months to express interest. They hope to have a deal done in 60 days, she said later. Earnhardt said he would listen to all offers but would work to remain with a Chevrolet team. Three Chevrolet teams are at the top of the sport: Hendrick Motorsports, Joe Gibbs Racing and Richard Childress Racing. Hendrick, though, has contracts with , Jimmie Johnson, Kyle Busch and Casey Mears and has sponsors through at least 2008. Nascar rules limit each owner to four drivers. Gibbs and Childress have three drivers apiece, but if Budweiser remains an Earnhardt sponsor that could be a problem. Gibbs does not want to be involved with an alcohol sponsorship and Childress has one with Jack Daniels, creating a conflict. “I think most everyone out there would say, ‘Yeah, he’d be a great fit here,’ ” J. D. Gibbs, president of Joe Gibbs Racing, said in a telephone interview. “I think for us, we’re just focusing kind of on what we’re doing now. Obviously he’s a big part of our sport, I think he could do about whatever he wants to do.” Earnhardt’s father won six of his seven championships for Childress. But Earnhardt would hesitate to drive the racecar that his father made famous. “I’ve got to do a little soul searching about how I feel about driving the No. 3 car,” he said. Earnhardt did not rule out driving a different racecar for Childress, though. He also could create a Cup team for JR Motorsports, although that is not the No. 1 option. Wherever he goes, the greatest impact could ultimately be felt at Dale Earnhardt Inc., which is losing the sport’s most marketable driver. “Well, the most classic statement that I’ve heard, and it came from : ‘What’s D.E.I. without Dale Jr.? A museum,’ ” said the three-time Cup champion Darrell Waltrip, who attended the news conference. “And that’s a pretty good analogy, I would say.” Teams Line Up to Make a Pitch for a Big Catch Sister Has Seat of Power as Earnhardt Drives On AUTO RACING; Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing &#x00bb; De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: - 1985
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California &#x00bb;
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/technology/12text.html Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys - on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys 2007 Do u txt whl drvng? Skip to next paragraph Lars Klove for you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? If you are doing so in Washington State, cease and desist, or risk a fine. Gov. Christine Gregoire signed the nation’s first law yesterday to ban “D.W.T.” — driving while texting with a cellphone, or other mobile device. “Would you read a book or newspaper while you were driving? No!” Governor Gregoire said. “Then why would you text while driving?” New Jersey is asking, too. The Legislature is considering a bill to outlaw D.W.T. (one of its sponsors, Paul D. Moriarty, admitted to sometimes using his BlackBerry while driving). Some states already ban talking on a cellphone behind the wheel unless a headset is used, and Washington joined that group yesterday. But while reading or other distracting activities may not actually be illegal behind the wheel, more legislators seem to be worried about the danger of multitaskers tapping away without coming to a stop. Mobile texters in the United States sent 158 billion messages last year, up 95 percent from 2005, according to industry statistics. There is no data on how many are typed or read by drivers, or how often the activity leads to collisions. There are, though, documented cases of texting-related crashes, including one that prompted the law in Washington. A driver, apparently fixated on his BlackBerry, slammed his van into the car in front of him last December, causing a five-vehicle pileup, state officials said. Not everyone advocates legislation. Jonathan Adkins, spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association, said that such laws, while well intended, were difficult for police to detect or enforce. In Washington, the penalty for D.W.T. is a $101 fine (the proposed fine in New Jersey is $250). But the crime is a secondary offense, meaning a driver must be pulled over for some more grievous infraction. “There’s a challenge for law enforcement,” Governor Gregoire said. For some, the greater challenge may be to exercise impulse control on the road. James Katz, director of the Center for Mobile Communications Studies at , says he doubts that many multitaskers will keep both hands on the wheel. “Only the most angelic drivers,” he said, “will be able to resist the temptation.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Manhattan Bridge, From Madison and Pike Streets, New York, 1 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/technology/12text.html Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys 2007 Do u txt whl drvng? Klove for you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? If you are doing so in Washington State, cease and desist, or risk a fine. Gov. Christine Gregoire signed the nation’s first law yesterday to ban “D.W.T.” — driving while texting with a cellphone, or other mobile device. “Would you read a book or newspaper while you were driving? No!” Governor Gregoire said. “Then why would you text while driving?” New Jersey is asking, too. The Legislature is considering a bill to outlaw D.W.T. (one of its sponsors, Paul D. Moriarty, admitted to sometimes using his BlackBerry while driving). Some states already ban talking on a cellphone behind the wheel unless a headset is used, and Washington joined that group yesterday. But while reading or other distracting activities may not actually be illegal behind the wheel, more legislators seem to be worried about the danger of multitaskers tapping away without coming to a stop. Mobile texters in the United States sent 158 billion messages last year, up 95 percent from 2005, according to industry statistics. There is no data on how many are typed or read by drivers, or how often the activity leads to collisions. There are, though, documented cases of texting-related crashes, including one that prompted the law in Washington. A driver, apparently fixated on his BlackBerry, slammed his van into the car in front of him last December, causing a five-vehicle pileup, state officials said. Not everyone advocates legislation. Jonathan Adkins, spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association, said that such laws, while well intended, were difficult for police to detect or enforce. In Washington, the penalty for D.W.T. is a $101 fine (the proposed fine in New Jersey is $250). But the crime is a secondary offense, meaning a driver must be pulled over for some more grievous infraction. “There’s a challenge for law enforcement,” Governor Gregoire said. For some, the greater challenge may be to exercise impulse control on the road. James Katz, director of the Center for Mobile Communications Studies at , says he doubts that many multitaskers will keep both hands on the wheel. “Only the most angelic drivers,” he said, “will be able to resist the temptation.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles &#x00bb; Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/13DUBAI.html?ex=1336708800&en=37fd63695378ca17&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing - the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Daryl Visscher for Emirates Motorplex is about an hour&#146;s drive from Dubai. 2007 UMM AL QAYWAYN, United Arab Emirates Skip to next paragraph Daryl Visscher for police have cracked down on drag racing on Jumeirah Beach Road in Dubai. LAST month at the Emirates Motorplex, Ahmed Rashid al-Hajji sat in the stands with a small group of friends, quietly sizing up the competition. In March he had been out on the track himself and had planned to be racing in April. “My car was ready until Wednesday night,” he said. “I was tuning my car in my friend’s garage, but there my luck was bad. So, inshallah,” or God willing, “next time.” Not that long ago, Mr. Hajji would have been on Jumeirah Beach Road, a long stretch of highway that runs through Dubai, pitting his souped-up Nissan Skyline GT-R 33 against Lamborghinis and Mercedes-Benz SL55s. But drivers said that a crackdown on aggressive driving by the Dubai police discouraged street racing, so Mr. Hajji’s Skyline sat at home for five months. “Then one of my friends told me, ‘Why don’t you go to the track?’ ” he said, referring to the Emirates Motorplex. He took the suggestion and earned fourth place in his debut run. There are many stories like his at the motorplex, a complex for quarter-mile drag racing deep in the desert of the Umm al Qaywayn emirate (one of the seven that make up the United Arab Emirates), about an hour’s drive northeast of Dubai. Although still relatively off the mainstream radar, the complex has become a safe way for Emirates gearheads to get off local roads to test their mettle on a track instead. The track was created by Sheik Marwan al-Mualla, son of the ruler of Umm al Qaywayn and chairman of the Emirates Motor Sports Federation. He financed the building of the track with his own money, initially as a way for his friends and him to compete against one another. He sees the track as a way to reduce accidents by providing drivers with a safe environment. “We have safety here, paramedics, an ambulance, and we give out trophies to the winners, something they can’t get on the street,” said Sheik Mualla, who no longer races on the track. “So what’s the reason to race out on the main roads?” Depending on whom you ask, Dubai is either a driver’s dream or a nightmare. Dubai is among the few cities of its size — it has a population of about 1.35 million — to have been built almost entirely after the invention of the automobile, which is apparent in the city’s general layout: a kind of Le Corbusien fantasy of skyscrapers, superhighways, sprawling shopping complexes and cities within cities, with little public transportation. Here, driving is a necessity. Cars are more than a means of transportation, however: With a real growth rate in gross domestic product of 10.2 percent in 2006, local Emiratis are making a lot of money, and automobiles are a highly visible expression of wealth, power and ambition. Not surprisingly, this has helped make Dubai a playground for high-octane thrill-seekers once the sun goes down and the traffic thins out. This aggressiveness makes Dubai a dangerous place to drive. Despite some successful efforts, including the recent installation of speed bumps along Jumeirah Beach Road, the Dubai Road and Transport Authority reported that road fatalities had increased by 32 percent from 2005 to 2006, with 312 people killed in Dubai last year. Judging by the stories of the drag racers at the Emirates Motorplex, the idea of competing in front of cheering crowds on Thursdays and Fridays once a month is capturing the imagination of former street racers. Similar factors in Southern California led to a proliferation of drag-racing parks in the 1950s in attempts to rein in street racing. In the U.A.E., this hasn’t meant the end of street racing any more than it did in California, but according to Abdulla Essa, manager of the traffic department of Umm al Qaywayn, there has been a decrease in accidents among young drivers in the emirate over the last four years. The motorplex, which also has tracks for motocross and all-terrain vehicles, has an overwhelmingly local feel. These aren’t your average Pabst Blue Ribbon-drinking spectators — and it’s not simply because there’s no drinking allowed on the premises. PEOPLE: AUTO RACING; Daytona War Tribute Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/13DUBAI.html?ex=1336708800&en=37fd63695378ca17&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Daryl Visscher for Emirates Motorplex is about an hour&#146;s drive from Dubai. 2007 UMM AL QAYWAYN, United Arab Emirates Visscher for police have cracked down on drag racing on Jumeirah Beach Road in Dubai. LAST month at the Emirates Motorplex, Ahmed Rashid al-Hajji sat in the stands with a small group of friends, quietly sizing up the competition. In March he had been out on the track himself and had planned to be racing in April. “My car was ready until Wednesday night,” he said. “I was tuning my car in my friend’s garage, but there my luck was bad. So, inshallah,” or God willing, “next time.” Not that long ago, Mr. Hajji would have been on Jumeirah Beach Road, a long stretch of highway that runs through Dubai, pitting his souped-up Nissan Skyline GT-R 33 against Lamborghinis and Mercedes-Benz SL55s. But drivers said that a crackdown on aggressive driving by the Dubai police discouraged street racing, so Mr. Hajji’s Skyline sat at home for five months. “Then one of my friends told me, ‘Why don’t you go to the track?’ ” he said, referring to the Emirates Motorplex. He took the suggestion and earned fourth place in his debut run. There are many stories like his at the motorplex, a complex for quarter-mile drag racing deep in the desert of the Umm al Qaywayn emirate (one of the seven that make up the United Arab Emirates), about an hour’s drive northeast of Dubai. Although still relatively off the mainstream radar, the complex has become a safe way for Emirates gearheads to get off local roads to test their mettle on a track instead. The track was created by Sheik Marwan al-Mualla, son of the ruler of Umm al Qaywayn and chairman of the Emirates Motor Sports Federation. He financed the building of the track with his own money, initially as a way for his friends and him to compete against one another. He sees the track as a way to reduce accidents by providing drivers with a safe environment. “We have safety here, paramedics, an ambulance, and we give out trophies to the winners, something they can’t get on the street,” said Sheik Mualla, who no longer races on the track. “So what’s the reason to race out on the main roads?” Depending on whom you ask, Dubai is either a driver’s dream or a nightmare. Dubai is among the few cities of its size — it has a population of about 1.35 million — to have been built almost entirely after the invention of the automobile, which is apparent in the city’s general layout: a kind of Le Corbusien fantasy of skyscrapers, superhighways, sprawling shopping complexes and cities within cities, with little public transportation. Here, driving is a necessity. Cars are more than a means of transportation, however: With a real growth rate in gross domestic product of 10.2 percent in 2006, local Emiratis are making a lot of money, and automobiles are a highly visible expression of wealth, power and ambition. Not surprisingly, this has helped make Dubai a playground for high-octane thrill-seekers once the sun goes down and the traffic thins out. This aggressiveness makes Dubai a dangerous place to drive. Despite some successful efforts, including the recent installation of speed bumps along Jumeirah Beach Road, the Dubai Road and Transport Authority reported that road fatalities had increased by 32 percent from 2005 to 2006, with 312 people killed in Dubai last year. Judging by the stories of the drag racers at the Emirates Motorplex, the idea of competing in front of cheering crowds on Thursdays and Fridays once a month is capturing the imagination of former street racers. Similar factors in Southern California led to a proliferation of drag-racing parks in the 1950s in attempts to rein in street racing. In the U.A.E., this hasn’t meant the end of street racing any more than it did in California, but according to Abdulla Essa, manager of the traffic department of Umm al Qaywayn, there has been a decrease in accidents among young drivers in the emirate over the last four years. The motorplex, which also has tracks for motocross and all-terrain vehicles, has an overwhelmingly local feel. These aren’t your average Pabst Blue Ribbon-drinking spectators — and it’s not simply because there’s no drinking allowed on the premises. PEOPLE: AUTO RACING; Daytona War Tribute Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/13GREASE.html?ex=1336708800&en=4e763f215a8a4035&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Where There&#8217;s Never an Oil Shortage - There’s Never an Oil Shortage Alan Zale for at Greasestock 2007 were not afraid to reveal their sources. 2007 Skip to next paragraph Alan Zale for solar car team from Newburgh Free Academy. Alan Zale for untrue to its name, Greasestock 2007 attracted a number of innovators who had gone beyond converting their vehicles to run on used fry oil. KARENA RUGGIERO, scrunched down in the cockpit of a tiny solar-powered racecar, never saw the small rock in the driveway of Peter Pratt’s Inn. But she knew it was there when the ground-scraping car — a brightly colored sliver with a wide bustle of photovoltaic cells splayed out behind — stopped dead in its tracks. So Ms. Ruggiero, a senior at the Newburgh Free Academy who had helped build the car, did what any savvy solar car racer would do: she bounced up and down in the seat to help inch the car forward. With a push from Jessica Marshall and Tova Markowitz, classmates who also helped with the car’s construction, the racecar gradually cleared the obstacle and continued on its way to the cheers of onlookers. This was Greasestock, the third annual gathering of “greasers,” people who have converted their diesel cars and trucks to run on vegetable oil. Somewhat untrue to its name, Greasestock 2007 attracted a number of innovators who had gone beyond converting their vehicles to run on used fry oil. In 2005, a tiny group — just eight committed aficionados — gathered at the invitation of Jon Pratt, the owner of the inn here in the rolling hills of northern Westchester County. By this year, attendance had grown to about 300 people, including nearly 50 who had driven converted vehicles. (I was among them, with my greased Jetta, which I have renamed Volksvegan.) Looking like a miniature county fair, the grounds of the inn were dotted with booths set up by local green businesses like ISI Solar and Choose Green Energy, two solar panel installers. But the biggest attraction for most attendees was the vehicles themselves, a collection of rather ordinary-looking Volkswagens and Mercedes-Benzes, along with a few Dodge and Ford trucks, lined up in the unpaved parking lot with their hoods raised. Brian Miller, who has driven more than 140,000 miles on used vegetable oil in his 1997 Ford F-250 pickup, made the 1,000-mile trip from his home in Peoria, Ill. “But you have to understand, I average 1,000 miles a week in my job, and it’s all on grease.” One of the more unusual cars was a bright green Austin Mini, modified with a Peugeot diesel engine and converted to run on vegetable oil. It was displayed by a Massachusetts company, Madhouse Minis. Some of the drivers had spent as little as $200 gathering up parts from hardware stores and plumbing suppliers; others had paid thousands of dollars for professional installation of components like a heated filter housing with electrically operated valves that automatically switch between tanks of diesel and vegetable oil. A crowd gathered as Wally Little, a partner in the newly formed V.O. Tech, a conversion company in nearby Mahopac, showed his filter unit, a shiny hunk of milled aluminum equipped with an electric heater to keep the normally viscous vegetable oil thin enough to pass through modern diesel injectors. At $1,250 for the custom-made device, he said, there’s barely a profit. A roaring sound drew a crowd of onlookers to a nearby oak tree, where Steve Leung was demonstrating another use for vegetable oil. On the ground in front of him were disembodied pieces of the oil-fired furnace that heats his home in Fairfield, Conn. A vigorous flame shot from the jet, showing that with the right adjustments, a furnace could be made to run on used cooking oil. “I thought of doing this last September, got it running in mid-October and heated my house all winter on vegetable oil,” Mr. Leung said. “I used about 700 gallons, and it was all free.” Mr. Pratt, who had closed his inn for the weekend to serve as host for the event, said he was happy to meet like-minded vegetable oil enthusiasts he had known only by their screen names at , an Internet meeting place established by one of the makers of conversion kits. Skip Wrightson, a customer service representative for Greasecar, the Massachusetts-based kit maker, said he saw vegetable oil conversions as a way “to establish a relationship with a car that allows people to live a modern life without doing damage to the earth.” Mr. Pratt expressed a different motive. “I run my car on grease to save money, and to not contribute to depending on foreign oil,” he said. “What it comes down to is I would just rather do it myself than depend on anyone else to provide fuel for my car.” Push More Use of Alternative Fuels Schwarzenegger Orders Cuts in Emissions On the Road Again, Where Biodiesel Is a Rising Star WHAT'S OFFLINE; How Many Miles to the Bushel? Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/13GREASE.html?ex=1336708800&en=4e763f215a8a4035&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Where There&#8217;s Never an Oil Shortage There’s Never an Oil Shortage Alan Zale for at Greasestock 2007 were not afraid to reveal their sources. 2007 Zale for solar car team from Newburgh Free Academy. Alan Zale for untrue to its name, Greasestock 2007 attracted a number of innovators who had gone beyond converting their vehicles to run on used fry oil. KARENA RUGGIERO, scrunched down in the cockpit of a tiny solar-powered racecar, never saw the small rock in the driveway of Peter Pratt’s Inn. But she knew it was there when the ground-scraping car — a brightly colored sliver with a wide bustle of photovoltaic cells splayed out behind — stopped dead in its tracks. So Ms. Ruggiero, a senior at the Newburgh Free Academy who had helped build the car, did what any savvy solar car racer would do: she bounced up and down in the seat to help inch the car forward. With a push from Jessica Marshall and Tova Markowitz, classmates who also helped with the car’s construction, the racecar gradually cleared the obstacle and continued on its way to the cheers of onlookers. This was Greasestock, the third annual gathering of “greasers,” people who have converted their diesel cars and trucks to run on vegetable oil. Somewhat untrue to its name, Greasestock 2007 attracted a number of innovators who had gone beyond converting their vehicles to run on used fry oil. In 2005, a tiny group — just eight committed aficionados — gathered at the invitation of Jon Pratt, the owner of the inn here in the rolling hills of northern Westchester County. By this year, attendance had grown to about 300 people, including nearly 50 who had driven converted vehicles. (I was among them, with my greased Jetta, which I have renamed Volksvegan.) Looking like a miniature county fair, the grounds of the inn were dotted with booths set up by local green businesses like ISI Solar and Choose Green Energy, two solar panel installers. But the biggest attraction for most attendees was the vehicles themselves, a collection of rather ordinary-looking Volkswagens and Mercedes-Benzes, along with a few Dodge and Ford trucks, lined up in the unpaved parking lot with their hoods raised. Brian Miller, who has driven more than 140,000 miles on used vegetable oil in his 1997 Ford F-250 pickup, made the 1,000-mile trip from his home in Peoria, Ill. “But you have to understand, I average 1,000 miles a week in my job, and it’s all on grease.” One of the more unusual cars was a bright green Austin Mini, modified with a Peugeot diesel engine and converted to run on vegetable oil. It was displayed by a Massachusetts company, Madhouse Minis. Some of the drivers had spent as little as $200 gathering up parts from hardware stores and plumbing suppliers; others had paid thousands of dollars for professional installation of components like a heated filter housing with electrically operated valves that automatically switch between tanks of diesel and vegetable oil. A crowd gathered as Wally Little, a partner in the newly formed V.O. Tech, a conversion company in nearby Mahopac, showed his filter unit, a shiny hunk of milled aluminum equipped with an electric heater to keep the normally viscous vegetable oil thin enough to pass through modern diesel injectors. At $1,250 for the custom-made device, he said, there’s barely a profit. A roaring sound drew a crowd of onlookers to a nearby oak tree, where Steve Leung was demonstrating another use for vegetable oil. On the ground in front of him were disembodied pieces of the oil-fired furnace that heats his home in Fairfield, Conn. A vigorous flame shot from the jet, showing that with the right adjustments, a furnace could be made to run on used cooking oil. “I thought of doing this last September, got it running in mid-October and heated my house all winter on vegetable oil,” Mr. Leung said. “I used about 700 gallons, and it was all free.” Mr. Pratt, who had closed his inn for the weekend to serve as host for the event, said he was happy to meet like-minded vegetable oil enthusiasts he had known only by their screen names at , an Internet meeting place established by one of the makers of conversion kits. Skip Wrightson, a customer service representative for Greasecar, the Massachusetts-based kit maker, said he saw vegetable oil conversions as a way “to establish a relationship with a car that allows people to live a modern life without doing damage to the earth.” Mr. Pratt expressed a different motive. “I run my car on grease to save money, and to not contribute to depending on foreign oil,” he said. “What it comes down to is I would just rather do it myself than depend on anyone else to provide fuel for my car.” Push More Use of Alternative Fuels Schwarzenegger Orders Cuts in Emissions On the Road Again, Where Biodiesel Is a Rising Star WHAT'S OFFLINE; How Many Miles to the Bushel? Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/autoreviews/13AUTO.html?ex=1336708800&en=92a7c26e802adc0e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - Acura MDX - Test Drive - MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... Begging to be noticed. 2007 ACURA says the exterior styling of its redesigned MDX sport wagon was inspired by high-end yachts, like the Wally Boat. Skip to next paragraph The X Files: Four Luxury Crossovers Really? From a side view, I see the profile of one of those surplus World War II DUKW amphibious craft. Duck Tour, anyone? In considering what the second-generation MDX should look like, Acura’s designers decided to depart from the safe me-too look of most S.U.V.’s. They wanted to make a notice-me statement, and they have certainly succeeded, from the anime-inspired grille to the nautical prow to the hunched haunches. The MDX made its debut as a 2001 model, greatly improving on the poorly received Isuzu-built SLX sport utility that Acura had previously tried to sell. The MDX hit the streets with stellar build quality, quickly built a reliability record to match and gained immediate respect. What it didn’t get was a lot of buyers. Competitors, including luxury sport wagons from German manufacturers, had a decided advantage in overall performance. The MDX was also saddled with comparatively bland styling. Worse, its own stablemate, the similar but less expensive Honda Pilot, poached sales from the same pool of buyers. Still, I considered the MDX a best buy, because it offered perhaps the auto industry’s best array of standard features at an excellent price in the mid-$30,000 range. Initially, the only option was a $2,000 DVD navigation system. For 2007, the base price has passed $40,000, and although the Acura still has an enviable array of standard features, a buyer seeking a loaded MDX must shell out another $8,000 for options. Acura is gambling that it can change minds and buying decisions in the high end of the S.U.V. market where BMW, Porsche and Mercedes play. In the past, MDX buyers were mostly women, who considered the outgoing MDX a comfortable, cushy, bullet-proof people hauler and grocery getter. This new model will probably seem like overkill to them. Now Acura is aiming at men. The MDX has been completely reimagined as a cutting-edge performance machine, with macho styling and a positively Teutonic array of electronic and telematic equipment. The MDX still comes only with a V-6, but the new 3.7-liter engine makes a more competitive 300 horsepower; indeed, this is Acura’s most powerful engine ever — even the discontinued NSX exotic sports car mustered only 253 horsepower. A dual-stage intake manifold and unusually high 11.0:1 compression ratio give the MDX’s engine the punch of a V-8 while sipping fuel like a V-6. In combined city and highway driving, I found it traveled nearly 20 miles on a gallon of premium unleaded. The MDX also still comes with a five-speed automatic that can be shifted like a manual. Although some competitors offer six- and even seven-speed transmissions, the MDX didn’t seem gear-deprived. This year, power is delivered as needed to each wheel through Acura’s savvy Super Handling All-Wheel-Drive system (introduced in the RL sedan), wherein the outside wheels can rotate faster to facilitate cornering. The racetrack-tuned suspension offers switchable sport and comfort settings. A magnetic shock-absorber system, included with the optional Sport Package, includes two-mode active dampers that increase stability and body control in hard maneuvers without ill effects on the ride. The MDX’s quickness and dexterity compare favorably with pricier high-performance rivals like the Porsche Cayenne and BMW X5. What’s more, towing capacity is 5,000 pounds, certainly adequate for a car-based utility. Standard safety equipment includes front air bags, side air bags mounted in the front seats, full-length side curtain bags, active front head restraints, stability control with a stabilizing feature for towing, tire-pressure monitors and antilock disc brakes with brake assist. The brakes, by the way, provided strong, sure stops. The MDX has grown to seven-passenger capacity, with three rows of seats; leather is standard on all MDXs. The power-adjustable front seats are handsome, firm and supportive. The roomy second row, which folds in a 60-40 configuration, has reclining seatbacks and a folding center section that doubles as an armrest with cup holders (in addition to other beverage and gear cubbies in the door pockets and elsewhere). The third row, split 50-50, is fit only for children. REVIEW; Back to the Double Feature Film in Review; Tales of the Rat Fink BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 BMW 328i and 335i; A Lot More Firepower For BMW's 6-Shooter AROUND THE BLOCK; Speed in a Box, From Sweden Acura Division of Honda Motor Co Honda Motor Company Limited Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/autoreviews/13AUTO.html?ex=1336708800&en=92a7c26e802adc0e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - Acura MDX - Test Drive MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... Begging to be noticed. 2007 ACURA says the exterior styling of its redesigned MDX sport wagon was inspired by high-end yachts, like the Wally Boat. X Files: Four Luxury Crossovers Really? From a side view, I see the profile of one of those surplus World War II DUKW amphibious craft. Duck Tour, anyone? In considering what the second-generation MDX should look like, Acura’s designers decided to depart from the safe me-too look of most S.U.V.’s. They wanted to make a notice-me statement, and they have certainly succeeded, from the anime-inspired grille to the nautical prow to the hunched haunches. The MDX made its debut as a 2001 model, greatly improving on the poorly received Isuzu-built SLX sport utility that Acura had previously tried to sell. The MDX hit the streets with stellar build quality, quickly built a reliability record to match and gained immediate respect. What it didn’t get was a lot of buyers. Competitors, including luxury sport wagons from German manufacturers, had a decided advantage in overall performance. The MDX was also saddled with comparatively bland styling. Worse, its own stablemate, the similar but less expensive Honda Pilot, poached sales from the same pool of buyers. Still, I considered the MDX a best buy, because it offered perhaps the auto industry’s best array of standard features at an excellent price in the mid-$30,000 range. Initially, the only option was a $2,000 DVD navigation system. For 2007, the base price has passed $40,000, and although the Acura still has an enviable array of standard features, a buyer seeking a loaded MDX must shell out another $8,000 for options. Acura is gambling that it can change minds and buying decisions in the high end of the S.U.V. market where BMW, Porsche and Mercedes play. In the past, MDX buyers were mostly women, who considered the outgoing MDX a comfortable, cushy, bullet-proof people hauler and grocery getter. This new model will probably seem like overkill to them. Now Acura is aiming at men. The MDX has been completely reimagined as a cutting-edge performance machine, with macho styling and a positively Teutonic array of electronic and telematic equipment. The MDX still comes only with a V-6, but the new 3.7-liter engine makes a more competitive 300 horsepower; indeed, this is Acura’s most powerful engine ever — even the discontinued NSX exotic sports car mustered only 253 horsepower. A dual-stage intake manifold and unusually high 11.0:1 compression ratio give the MDX’s engine the punch of a V-8 while sipping fuel like a V-6. In combined city and highway driving, I found it traveled nearly 20 miles on a gallon of premium unleaded. The MDX also still comes with a five-speed automatic that can be shifted like a manual. Although some competitors offer six- and even seven-speed transmissions, the MDX didn’t seem gear-deprived. This year, power is delivered as needed to each wheel through Acura’s savvy Super Handling All-Wheel-Drive system (introduced in the RL sedan), wherein the outside wheels can rotate faster to facilitate cornering. The racetrack-tuned suspension offers switchable sport and comfort settings. A magnetic shock-absorber system, included with the optional Sport Package, includes two-mode active dampers that increase stability and body control in hard maneuvers without ill effects on the ride. The MDX’s quickness and dexterity compare favorably with pricier high-performance rivals like the Porsche Cayenne and BMW X5. What’s more, towing capacity is 5,000 pounds, certainly adequate for a car-based utility. Standard safety equipment includes front air bags, side air bags mounted in the front seats, full-length side curtain bags, active front head restraints, stability control with a stabilizing feature for towing, tire-pressure monitors and antilock disc brakes with brake assist. The brakes, by the way, provided strong, sure stops. The MDX has grown to seven-passenger capacity, with three rows of seats; leather is standard on all MDXs. The power-adjustable front seats are handsome, firm and supportive. The roomy second row, which folds in a 60-40 configuration, has reclining seatbacks and a folding center section that doubles as an armrest with cup holders (in addition to other beverage and gear cubbies in the door pockets and elsewhere). The third row, split 50-50, is fit only for children. REVIEW; Back to the Double Feature Film in Review; Tales of the Rat Fink BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 BMW 328i and 335i; A Lot More Firepower For BMW's 6-Shooter AROUND THE BLOCK; Speed in a Box, From Sweden Acura Division of Honda Motor Co Honda Motor Company Limited Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/autoreviews/13BLOCK.html?ex=1336708800&en=d217d80ebce62267&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - Lincoln MKX - Test Drive - MKX: Beyond the Edge Ford&#146;s American luxury division finally gets a crossover wagon. 2007 WHILE Cadillac has staged a respectable revival of late, times are still tough for Lincoln, the other venerable American luxury line. Skip to next paragraph The X Files: Four Luxury Crossovers Lincoln had its last bona fide hit, the Navigator sport utility, nearly a decade ago. In the years since, it has posted a lineup that could confirm the existence of chaos theory. The bizarre Blackwood pickup for 2002 was dead on arrival — appropriate, since it came only in black and featured what appeared to be a powered coffin lid over a carpeted bed. Failing to take the hint, Lincoln brought out another luxury pickup, the Mark LT, which has also underperformed in the showroom. On the sport utility front, Lincoln cobbled together the Aviator for 2002. It was basically a Ford Explorer with a deluxe interior, but at a price above $45,000, few left the hangar. Beyond its price, the Aviator’s failing — and Lincoln’s, too — was to miss the crossover wave. Models like the Lexus RX, now the perennial top seller among luxury sport utilities, were really cars underneath. By and large, Americans have discovered in recent years that they prefer crossovers to truck-centric models like the Aviator. Better late than never, Lincoln now paddles in with its first crossover: the MKX, not to be confused with Acura’s competing MDX — or with Lincoln’s own MKZ, a sedan formerly known as the Zephyr, or its yet-to-come MKS. (Chaos also rules the Lincoln’s naming department.) Based on the Ford Edge and Mazda CX-9, the five-passenger MKX is vastly more flightworthy than the Aviator. It is competent and quite striking. It starts at $36,445 including optional all-wheel drive, far less than other luxury models of its size: about $3,000 below the Lexus RX 350, about $4,000 less than the Acura, about $7,000 below a Mercedes ML350. But let’s be honest. The MKX may impress price shoppers and Lincoln loyalists, or people who remember where they were when Barry Goldwater got the Republican nomination. But it is less likely to impress people who have forged lasting relationships with rich foreigners, like the sport wagons from Lexus, Mercedes and BMW. No doubt, the Lincoln wins some style points: The MKX has an aerodynamic shape that even the Jetsons might like, and a wall-to-wall chrome grille that adds some visual sizzle. It’s a handsome ride. The interior is reasonably comfortable, though the front seats were handicapped by a short, hard bottom cushion. A central touch screen smoothly controls the audio system, navigation unit and other functions. (Lincoln could teach BMW and Mercedes a thing or two about user-friendly electronics.) An enormous sunroof is part of a $4,795 package that includes the navigation system, satellite radio and THX audio system. The MKX’s sharply angled windshield resulted in distracting reflections from vents atop the dashboard. But the gauges may be the biggest faux pas; did anyone at Lincoln notice how cheap they look? They’re penciled in a wispy, almost girlish font that recalls a J. C. Penney circular. The Lincoln’s neatest feature may be the dual buttons in the hatch area that drop the split 60-40 rear seats flat in a one-finger operation. There is useful storage back there, though the stylishly sloping roof reduces the ultimate capacity: both the Acura and Lexus have about 20 percent more space with the rear seats folded. On the road, the MKX is smooth, solid and quiet. But it drives like, well, a nice minivan, and I’d wager that a Honda Odyssey could beat it around a road course. Of course, the MKX is a prettified Ford Edge, and like that crossover wagon it feels rather large and unwieldy. Compared with the Ford, the Lincoln’s suspension is biased toward a comfortable ride, so it is tuned like a baby’s mashed potatoes: soft, messy and poorly controlled. The steering traces the right path, but the feel is vague and muffled. The 3.5-liter V-6, the new go-to engine for multiple Ford models, puts out a healthy 265 horsepower and 250 pound-feet of maximum torque. The six-speed automatic transmission is decently smooth, though the lack of manual-shift ability is another clue to the Lincoln’s easy-cruising intentions. The MKX also tips the scales at 4,420 pounds, one reason for a somewhat leisurely 8.1-second run from a standstill to 60 m.p.h. Yet despite the mass, the federal fuel economy rating is an impressive 17 miles a gallon in town, 24 on the highway, with all-wheel drive. (Front-drive models are rated 1 m.p.g. higher in town and country.) Braking is less impressive, though, as proved in testing by Car and Driver. The magazine recorded a 197-foot stop from 70 m.p.h., near the bottom in the class. The Lincoln weighs about 100 pounds less than the longer, wider Acura, and 300 less than a Mercedes M-Class. But the Acura, with its terrific suspension and performance-tuned all-wheel-drive system, feels like a nimble sport sedan in comparison — without any tradeoffs in ride or roominess. The Acura isn’t the only one: a homegrown rival, the Cadillac SRX, pioneered an adaptive magnetically controlled suspension that has been adopted by super sports cars like the Chevrolet Corvette, Ferrari 599 GTB and Audi R8. As you might expect, the Cadillac outhandles the Lincoln. In the MKX’s defense, the Lexus RX is no barn burner, either. And again, the Lincoln undercuts the competition: stuffed with options, my test car checked in at $43,890. Skeptics will note that the Lincoln’s stablemate, the Ford Edge, has a base price about $8,800 lower. They may well dismiss the Lincoln as an overpriced Ford. But people who love the Lincoln’s looks, and value smoothness over sport, may prefer to call the MKX a bargain Lexus. Briefing | Recalls: An Alert For Agent Cool Blue Toyota Deepens Discounts on Its New Pickup With Top-Selling Silverado, G.M. Sales Defied Trend and Rose for Month BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Ford Edge; More Weighty Than Edgy Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/autoreviews/13BLOCK.html?ex=1336708800&en=d217d80ebce62267&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - Lincoln MKX - Test Drive MKX: Beyond the Edge Ford&#146;s American luxury division finally gets a crossover wagon. 2007 WHILE Cadillac has staged a respectable revival of late, times are still tough for Lincoln, the other venerable American luxury line. X Files: Four Luxury Crossovers Lincoln had its last bona fide hit, the Navigator sport utility, nearly a decade ago. In the years since, it has posted a lineup that could confirm the existence of chaos theory. The bizarre Blackwood pickup for 2002 was dead on arrival — appropriate, since it came only in black and featured what appeared to be a powered coffin lid over a carpeted bed. Failing to take the hint, Lincoln brought out another luxury pickup, the Mark LT, which has also underperformed in the showroom. On the sport utility front, Lincoln cobbled together the Aviator for 2002. It was basically a Ford Explorer with a deluxe interior, but at a price above $45,000, few left the hangar. Beyond its price, the Aviator’s failing — and Lincoln’s, too — was to miss the crossover wave. Models like the Lexus RX, now the perennial top seller among luxury sport utilities, were really cars underneath. By and large, Americans have discovered in recent years that they prefer crossovers to truck-centric models like the Aviator. Better late than never, Lincoln now paddles in with its first crossover: the MKX, not to be confused with Acura’s competing MDX — or with Lincoln’s own MKZ, a sedan formerly known as the Zephyr, or its yet-to-come MKS. (Chaos also rules the Lincoln’s naming department.) Based on the Ford Edge and Mazda CX-9, the five-passenger MKX is vastly more flightworthy than the Aviator. It is competent and quite striking. It starts at $36,445 including optional all-wheel drive, far less than other luxury models of its size: about $3,000 below the Lexus RX 350, about $4,000 less than the Acura, about $7,000 below a Mercedes ML350. But let’s be honest. The MKX may impress price shoppers and Lincoln loyalists, or people who remember where they were when Barry Goldwater got the Republican nomination. But it is less likely to impress people who have forged lasting relationships with rich foreigners, like the sport wagons from Lexus, Mercedes and BMW. No doubt, the Lincoln wins some style points: The MKX has an aerodynamic shape that even the Jetsons might like, and a wall-to-wall chrome grille that adds some visual sizzle. It’s a handsome ride. The interior is reasonably comfortable, though the front seats were handicapped by a short, hard bottom cushion. A central touch screen smoothly controls the audio system, navigation unit and other functions. (Lincoln could teach BMW and Mercedes a thing or two about user-friendly electronics.) An enormous sunroof is part of a $4,795 package that includes the navigation system, satellite radio and THX audio system. The MKX’s sharply angled windshield resulted in distracting reflections from vents atop the dashboard. But the gauges may be the biggest faux pas; did anyone at Lincoln notice how cheap they look? They’re penciled in a wispy, almost girlish font that recalls a J. C. Penney circular. The Lincoln’s neatest feature may be the dual buttons in the hatch area that drop the split 60-40 rear seats flat in a one-finger operation. There is useful storage back there, though the stylishly sloping roof reduces the ultimate capacity: both the Acura and Lexus have about 20 percent more space with the rear seats folded. On the road, the MKX is smooth, solid and quiet. But it drives like, well, a nice minivan, and I’d wager that a Honda Odyssey could beat it around a road course. Of course, the MKX is a prettified Ford Edge, and like that crossover wagon it feels rather large and unwieldy. Compared with the Ford, the Lincoln’s suspension is biased toward a comfortable ride, so it is tuned like a baby’s mashed potatoes: soft, messy and poorly controlled. The steering traces the right path, but the feel is vague and muffled. The 3.5-liter V-6, the new go-to engine for multiple Ford models, puts out a healthy 265 horsepower and 250 pound-feet of maximum torque. The six-speed automatic transmission is decently smooth, though the lack of manual-shift ability is another clue to the Lincoln’s easy-cruising intentions. The MKX also tips the scales at 4,420 pounds, one reason for a somewhat leisurely 8.1-second run from a standstill to 60 m.p.h. Yet despite the mass, the federal fuel economy rating is an impressive 17 miles a gallon in town, 24 on the highway, with all-wheel drive. (Front-drive models are rated 1 m.p.g. higher in town and country.) Braking is less impressive, though, as proved in testing by Car and Driver. The magazine recorded a 197-foot stop from 70 m.p.h., near the bottom in the class. The Lincoln weighs about 100 pounds less than the longer, wider Acura, and 300 less than a Mercedes M-Class. But the Acura, with its terrific suspension and performance-tuned all-wheel-drive system, feels like a nimble sport sedan in comparison — without any tradeoffs in ride or roominess. The Acura isn’t the only one: a homegrown rival, the Cadillac SRX, pioneered an adaptive magnetically controlled suspension that has been adopted by super sports cars like the Chevrolet Corvette, Ferrari 599 GTB and Audi R8. As you might expect, the Cadillac outhandles the Lincoln. In the MKX’s defense, the Lexus RX is no barn burner, either. And again, the Lincoln undercuts the competition: stuffed with options, my test car checked in at $43,890. Skeptics will note that the Lincoln’s stablemate, the Ford Edge, has a base price about $8,800 lower. They may well dismiss the Lincoln as an overpriced Ford. But people who love the Lincoln’s looks, and value smoothness over sport, may prefer to call the MKX a bargain Lexus. Briefing | Recalls: An Alert For Agent Cool Blue Toyota Deepens Discounts on Its New Pickup With Top-Selling Silverado, G.M. Sales Defied Trend and Rose for Month BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Ford Edge; More Weighty Than Edgy Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/collectibles/13FERRARI.html?ex=1336708800&en=7643c20f2c2afb87&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale - Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Courtesy of RM Auctions A 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa. 2007 FERRARI cleans out its garage, so to speak, with an auction at its track near Maranello, Italy, on May 20. You can call it a factory sale or you can call it more grandly the Leggenda e Passione auction, as RM Auctions does. A sale at the factory suggests surplus stacked on the loading dock or samples outside a Seventh Avenue loft. But when the factory is Ferrari’s, you don’t just drive up in your van. Ferrari allowed RM Auctions to handle the sale as part of the automaker’s 60th-anniversary celebration and to call attention to its new services of certifying and restoring vintage Ferraris. The auction is the first sale in Europe for RM Auctions, the Canadian company that is collaborating on this sale with Sotheby’s. The star of the event is a 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa, the only 4-liter and the last racing Testa Rossa by Ferrari. It was driven by the endurance racers Phil Hill and Olivier Gendebien. The other stars of the sale are cars well known to Ferrari buffs, well traveled to shows and concours and often auctioned. Built in runs of 10 or a dozen, these are cars that buffs know by their chassis numbers. Some are simply legendary pieces of engineering and design, like the most powerful Ferrari of its era, the 1953 Ferrari 340MM, with a 4.1-liter, 300-horsepower V-12. Some are famous for their drivers, like the 1970 Ferrari 512 S raced by Luigi Chinetti’s North American Racing Team twice at Sebring or the 1966 Ferrari Dino 206 SP. An alloy-body competition version of the short-wheelbase 1960 250 GT will also be offered, as well as a prototype of the F40 supercar. Those with a more modest bidding budget will be drawn to the actual garage items — perhaps one of the more than 100 lots of racing memorabilia from the Ferrari archives — the real basement tapes. The show is also aimed to highlight Ferrari Classiche, the specialist division established for documenting, authenticating and restoring vintage Ferraris. In less than a year, it has carried out nearly 500 certifications and restored 84 cars at its workshop. There could be a big headline from the sale. RM may earn bragging rights to the top price ever paid for an automobile sold at auction. the Lamborghini. He&#8217;d Rather Drive a V-8. IN TRANSIT; Touring Italy With the Ferrari Of Your Choice DESIGN; What's New at Pininfarina? The Do-It-Yourself Ferrari High-Speed Crash Leaves Lingering Mysteries Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1962-67 MGB Mk I Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/collectibles/13FERRARI.html?ex=1336708800&en=7643c20f2c2afb87&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Courtesy of RM Auctions A 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa. 2007 FERRARI cleans out its garage, so to speak, with an auction at its track near Maranello, Italy, on May 20. You can call it a factory sale or you can call it more grandly the Leggenda e Passione auction, as RM Auctions does. A sale at the factory suggests surplus stacked on the loading dock or samples outside a Seventh Avenue loft. But when the factory is Ferrari’s, you don’t just drive up in your van. Ferrari allowed RM Auctions to handle the sale as part of the automaker’s 60th-anniversary celebration and to call attention to its new services of certifying and restoring vintage Ferraris. The auction is the first sale in Europe for RM Auctions, the Canadian company that is collaborating on this sale with Sotheby’s. The star of the event is a 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa, the only 4-liter and the last racing Testa Rossa by Ferrari. It was driven by the endurance racers Phil Hill and Olivier Gendebien. The other stars of the sale are cars well known to Ferrari buffs, well traveled to shows and concours and often auctioned. Built in runs of 10 or a dozen, these are cars that buffs know by their chassis numbers. Some are simply legendary pieces of engineering and design, like the most powerful Ferrari of its era, the 1953 Ferrari 340MM, with a 4.1-liter, 300-horsepower V-12. Some are famous for their drivers, like the 1970 Ferrari 512 S raced by Luigi Chinetti’s North American Racing Team twice at Sebring or the 1966 Ferrari Dino 206 SP. An alloy-body competition version of the short-wheelbase 1960 250 GT will also be offered, as well as a prototype of the F40 supercar. Those with a more modest bidding budget will be drawn to the actual garage items — perhaps one of the more than 100 lots of racing memorabilia from the Ferrari archives — the real basement tapes. The show is also aimed to highlight Ferrari Classiche, the specialist division established for documenting, authenticating and restoring vintage Ferraris. In less than a year, it has carried out nearly 500 certifications and restored 84 cars at its workshop. There could be a big headline from the sale. RM may earn bragging rights to the top price ever paid for an automobile sold at auction. the Lamborghini. He&#8217;d Rather Drive a V-8. IN TRANSIT; Touring Italy With the Ferrari Of Your Choice DESIGN; What's New at Pininfarina? The Do-It-Yourself Ferrari High-Speed Crash Leaves Lingering Mysteries Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1964 1/2-66 Ford Mustang Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13count.html A Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage - Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage 2007 The summer forecast for gasoline prices is out. Quick summary: you may want to stay home for your vacation and ask your boss about telecommuting. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Retail prices for gasoline are projected to average $2.95 a gallon, compared with $2.84 last summer, according to the federal Energy Information Administration. A big reason is that global demand for oil is rising. China, for one, is behaving more like a consumer and is starting to use oil supplies the way the United States does. (The nerve!) Add refinery troubles at home and abroad, unrest in Nigeria and declining production from mature oil sources in the North Sea, the Middle East, Mexico and Russia, and you have more gas stations flirting with $3 a gallon. There are ways to ease anxiety about the high price of gasoline. One: Complain about it to Europeans, who pay even more because of taxes. Two: Be aware that new projects in places like the Caspian Sea, the Sakhalin Island, Africa and Brazil are increasing supply. Three: Look at a chart of gas prices adjusted for inflation. You will then realize that prices were actually higher for consumers in 1980. According to the inflation chart, prices were higher in 1920, too. Back then, though, more people had the option of riding a horse to work. PHYLLIS KORKKI Deficit Hits a Six-Month High Retail Sales Fell Sharply Last Month WORLD BRIEFING | AFRICA; Nigeria: Gunmen Seize 4 U.S. Oil Workers Official Who Oversees Gulf Oil Drilling to Retire Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13count.html A Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage 2007 The summer forecast for gasoline prices is out. Quick summary: you may want to stay home for your vacation and ask your boss about telecommuting. week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Retail prices for gasoline are projected to average $2.95 a gallon, compared with $2.84 last summer, according to the federal Energy Information Administration. A big reason is that global demand for oil is rising. China, for one, is behaving more like a consumer and is starting to use oil supplies the way the United States does. (The nerve!) Add refinery troubles at home and abroad, unrest in Nigeria and declining production from mature oil sources in the North Sea, the Middle East, Mexico and Russia, and you have more gas stations flirting with $3 a gallon. There are ways to ease anxiety about the high price of gasoline. One: Complain about it to Europeans, who pay even more because of taxes. Two: Be aware that new projects in places like the Caspian Sea, the Sakhalin Island, Africa and Brazil are increasing supply. Three: Look at a chart of gas prices adjusted for inflation. You will then realize that prices were actually higher for consumers in 1980. According to the inflation chart, prices were higher in 1920, too. Back then, though, more people had the option of riding a horse to work. PHYLLIS KORKKI Deficit Hits a Six-Month High Retail Sales Fell Sharply Last Month WORLD BRIEFING | AFRICA; Nigeria: Gunmen Seize 4 U.S. Oil Workers Official Who Oversees Gulf Oil Drilling to Retire Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline &#x00bb; a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Century of Flight Commemorative
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/14/technology/14ecom.html?ex=1336795200&en=0e6d3555d7a809b0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices - Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Stephen Chernin for Renner, chief executive of DriverTV, taking a break at an exit from the West Side Highway in Manhattan. 2007 ONE of the most dreaded buying decisions is becoming still tougher. Auto manufacturers now sell about 280 different cars in the United States, up from 208 at the start of the decade. In five years that number is expected by market researchers to reach 340. The Internet’s solution to this problem sounds suspiciously like its answer to everything else these days: more video. But in this case, analysts said, it could help buyers, carmakers and automotive Web sites — at least in the short term. More than 70 percent of car buyers do some research online before making a purchase. The site that is putting the finest point on the idea of online research is , which will makes it official debut today after several months in test mode. Based in New York and Los Angeles, the site features high-definition video clips of new-car models, with each video following a uniform script. A roughly three-minute video of a $175,000 Lamborghini Gallardo, for example, shows the car from the same angles as a clip featuring a $15,000 Chevrolet Aveo. As a narrator describes the features, interior and exterior shots are coupled with footage of the car driving along a stretch of road in Southern California. The site’s parent, DriverTV, began late in 2005 as a video-on-demand offering for cable television companies. But according to Jan Renner, DriverTV’s chief executive, the Web is a better home for the content. Because many cable companies transmit high-definition programs judiciously as a result of the costs of bandwidth, DriverTV’s high-definition content has not been widely distributed to living rooms and its videos look sharper online than on television. And unlike cable TV subscribers, Internet users need not jump through hoops to get the service. Even though DriverTV clips cost nothing on cable, subscribers must pay extra for video-on-demand service. Mr. Renner said that given the pace at which viewers are visiting DriverTV.com, he expects the site to reach more than a million monthly visitors within a year. (DriverTV has about 700,000 monthly cable viewers.) To generate cash, the site surrounds videos with ads from and Chevrolet, among other carmakers. The video initiative is not cheap. Radical Media, a maker of commercials and feature films, produces the clips and owns a partial stake in DriverTV. But Mr. Renner said the cost was increasingly necessary to attract car buyers and advertisers. “This is just an easier way to digest data,” he said. “The average consumer spends five hours online shopping for a car, and a lot of the other car sites have become cumbersome and data-centric. We think there’s an opening on the market for a place where customers can see and get a feel for the car, in a simple format.” Indeed, according to George Peterson, president of Auto Pacific, a marketing research firm based in Tustin, Calif., the videos help provide an answer to what is, for many potential buyers, the most important question: how would it look on me? “People may not even listen to the voice-over for the videos,” Mr. Peterson said, adding, “They might be interested in looking at the specs of the car, then the price, and then maybe other cars in its class.” Auto executives said most of the sites that now serve prospective car buyers, like Edmunds.com, and Kelley Blue Book’s , had been slow to invest substantially in video until now, in part because they have enjoyed financial success with their text-heavy approaches, while such investments would bring uncertain returns. Curt Hecht, chief digital officer of GM Planworks, a unit of the Media- vest Group dealing with media planning, said: “It’s in our interest to help folks like DriverTV change the game a little bit. These other sites could have bigger imaginations, quite frankly.” Some automotive sites, like , are already leading off a visitor’s experience with video. The site, which is privately held and based in Salt Lake City, devotes the top of the home page to its Vehix TV initiative, that among other things, features a new set of video buying guides produced with the auto research firm J. D. Power & Associates. A spokesman, Kerry Lehtinen, said Vehix TV was started two years ago. “It’s been very popular,” Mr. Lehtinen said. “It extends the amount of time people spend on the site, and it’s getting people further down the purchase funnel. The more information they have, the more ready they are to buy.” Other sites have approached video in fits and starts. Edmunds.com, for instance, last year began producing “interactive vehicle tours” for new cars, but stopped that effort after “studying our site visitors’ behavior and taking into account their feedback,” a spokeswoman, Jeannine Fallon, said. Ms. Fallon would not offer details about the users’ reaction to the Edmunds videos, but she said the site was now working on a new approach to multimedia car profiles. David Pryor, vice president for marketing of Porsche Cars North America, said video was especially important for luxury brands like his. “The traditional ‘just the facts, ma’am’ approach on the Internet hasn’t been the best for us because we’re an aspirational brand,” he said. “We’re selling the dream.” Porsche has tripled its online advertising budget in the last three years to reach the “seven-figure range,” Mr. Pryor said. And as more sites adopt a video-focused philosophy, he said, his online spending would accelerate. While that approach might help sell more cars, it could lead to less-satisfied customers in the long term, according to Barry Schwartz, a psychology professor at Swarthmore College and the author of “The Paradox of Choice.” When consumers are faced with a large set of options, Mr. Schwartz said, they often simplify their decisions so much that they make poor choices. “In this case, they’re likely to just choose a car by its looks,” he said. A better approach, Mr. Schwartz said, would be to offer users the ability to quickly winnow the possible choices, based on important features like size, reliability and mileage, then offer video overviews. Otherwise, he said, “these sites shouldn’t delude themselves into thinking they’re doing a favor to the customer.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles OFFLINE; When Failure Is a Good Thing High Court Puts Limits On Patents TECHNOLOGY; Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 The Sales Pitch, Minus Salesmen Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Video) &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - TECHNOLOGY Comedy Business Turns to the Web Basics: Where&#8217;s the Other Half of Your Music File? Take Note: Computing Takes Up Pen, Again Moving Web-Based Software Offline State of the Art: The Cartridge, Updated, Catches Up to Data Touch Screen in a Table Is the Latest Wrinkle in Computers For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce Digital Fears Emerge After Data Siege in Estonia Swimmers Who Avoid the Deep Have a New Camcorder Choice Silicon Valley Wide-Eyed Over a Bride Camera Phone? Yahoo and Reuters Want You to Work for Their News Service The Future of Web Ads Is in Britain Red Web Sites Versus Blue Web Sites million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/14/technology/14ecom.html?ex=1336795200&en=0e6d3555d7a809b0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Stephen Chernin for Renner, chief executive of DriverTV, taking a break at an exit from the West Side Highway in Manhattan. 2007 ONE of the most dreaded buying decisions is becoming still tougher. Auto manufacturers now sell about 280 different cars in the United States, up from 208 at the start of the decade. In five years that number is expected by market researchers to reach 340. The Internet’s solution to this problem sounds suspiciously like its answer to everything else these days: more video. But in this case, analysts said, it could help buyers, carmakers and automotive Web sites — at least in the short term. More than 70 percent of car buyers do some research online before making a purchase. The site that is putting the finest point on the idea of online research is , which will makes it official debut today after several months in test mode. Based in New York and Los Angeles, the site features high-definition video clips of new-car models, with each video following a uniform script. A roughly three-minute video of a $175,000 Lamborghini Gallardo, for example, shows the car from the same angles as a clip featuring a $15,000 Chevrolet Aveo. As a narrator describes the features, interior and exterior shots are coupled with footage of the car driving along a stretch of road in Southern California. The site’s parent, DriverTV, began late in 2005 as a video-on-demand offering for cable television companies. But according to Jan Renner, DriverTV’s chief executive, the Web is a better home for the content. Because many cable companies transmit high-definition programs judiciously as a result of the costs of bandwidth, DriverTV’s high-definition content has not been widely distributed to living rooms and its videos look sharper online than on television. And unlike cable TV subscribers, Internet users need not jump through hoops to get the service. Even though DriverTV clips cost nothing on cable, subscribers must pay extra for video-on-demand service. Mr. Renner said that given the pace at which viewers are visiting DriverTV.com, he expects the site to reach more than a million monthly visitors within a year. (DriverTV has about 700,000 monthly cable viewers.) To generate cash, the site surrounds videos with ads from and Chevrolet, among other carmakers. The video initiative is not cheap. Radical Media, a maker of commercials and feature films, produces the clips and owns a partial stake in DriverTV. But Mr. Renner said the cost was increasingly necessary to attract car buyers and advertisers. “This is just an easier way to digest data,” he said. “The average consumer spends five hours online shopping for a car, and a lot of the other car sites have become cumbersome and data-centric. We think there’s an opening on the market for a place where customers can see and get a feel for the car, in a simple format.” Indeed, according to George Peterson, president of Auto Pacific, a marketing research firm based in Tustin, Calif., the videos help provide an answer to what is, for many potential buyers, the most important question: how would it look on me? “People may not even listen to the voice-over for the videos,” Mr. Peterson said, adding, “They might be interested in looking at the specs of the car, then the price, and then maybe other cars in its class.” Auto executives said most of the sites that now serve prospective car buyers, like Edmunds.com, and Kelley Blue Book’s , had been slow to invest substantially in video until now, in part because they have enjoyed financial success with their text-heavy approaches, while such investments would bring uncertain returns. Curt Hecht, chief digital officer of GM Planworks, a unit of the Media- vest Group dealing with media planning, said: “It’s in our interest to help folks like DriverTV change the game a little bit. These other sites could have bigger imaginations, quite frankly.” Some automotive sites, like , are already leading off a visitor’s experience with video. The site, which is privately held and based in Salt Lake City, devotes the top of the home page to its Vehix TV initiative, that among other things, features a new set of video buying guides produced with the auto research firm J. D. Power & Associates. A spokesman, Kerry Lehtinen, said Vehix TV was started two years ago. “It’s been very popular,” Mr. Lehtinen said. “It extends the amount of time people spend on the site, and it’s getting people further down the purchase funnel. The more information they have, the more ready they are to buy.” Other sites have approached video in fits and starts. Edmunds.com, for instance, last year began producing “interactive vehicle tours” for new cars, but stopped that effort after “studying our site visitors’ behavior and taking into account their feedback,” a spokeswoman, Jeannine Fallon, said. Ms. Fallon would not offer details about the users’ reaction to the Edmunds videos, but she said the site was now working on a new approach to multimedia car profiles. David Pryor, vice president for marketing of Porsche Cars North America, said video was especially important for luxury brands like his. “The traditional ‘just the facts, ma’am’ approach on the Internet hasn’t been the best for us because we’re an aspirational brand,” he said. “We’re selling the dream.” Porsche has tripled its online advertising budget in the last three years to reach the “seven-figure range,” Mr. Pryor said. And as more sites adopt a video-focused philosophy, he said, his online spending would accelerate. While that approach might help sell more cars, it could lead to less-satisfied customers in the long term, according to Barry Schwartz, a psychology professor at Swarthmore College and the author of “The Paradox of Choice.” When consumers are faced with a large set of options, Mr. Schwartz said, they often simplify their decisions so much that they make poor choices. “In this case, they’re likely to just choose a car by its looks,” he said. A better approach, Mr. Schwartz said, would be to offer users the ability to quickly winnow the possible choices, based on important features like size, reliability and mileage, then offer video overviews. Otherwise, he said, “these sites shouldn’t delude themselves into thinking they’re doing a favor to the customer.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles OFFLINE; When Failure Is a Good Thing High Court Puts Limits On Patents TECHNOLOGY; Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 The Sales Pitch, Minus Salesmen Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Video) &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - TECHNOLOGY Comedy Business Turns to the Web Basics: Where&#8217;s the Other Half of Your Music File? Take Note: Computing Takes Up Pen, Again Touch Screen in a Table Is the Latest Wrinkle in Computers Moving Web-Based Software Offline State of the Art: The Cartridge, Updated, Catches Up to Data Digital Fears Emerge After Data Siege in Estonia Swimmers Who Avoid the Deep Have a New Camcorder Choice For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce In Fierce Competition, Google Finds Novel Ways to Feed Hiring Machine Camera Phone? Yahoo and Reuters Want You to Work for Their News Service The Future of Web Ads Is in Britain Red Web Sites Versus Blue Web Sites
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15Auto.html In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. - Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Illustration by 2007 AUBURN HILLS, Mich., May 14 — Can private equity investors fix Chrysler for good, and can they avoid a confrontation with the Skip to next paragraph Back Story With Micheline Maynard ( Statement by Ron Gettelfinger, U.A.W. President Micheline Maynard on NPR's Marketplace Micheline Maynard on NPR's Here and Now What should Chrysler do with its cars? A big scalp for private equity. Go to Blog » Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground These are the most pressing questions to arise from the deal announced Monday for Cerberus Capital Management, which specializes in restructuring troubled companies, to pay a total of $7.4 billion to take control of Chrysler, with most of that money to be invested in the newly independent company. By unwinding a nine-year-old merger between Chrysler and Daimler-Benz of Germany, Cerberus is also taking on Chrysler’s $18 billion obligation for health care and pensions for employees and retirees. Any efforts to sharply reduce those perks — which Chrysler can afford but says represent a cost burden of $1,500 a vehicle — will probably put it at odds with the U.A.W. The issue will take on added importance in two months, when the union and Detroit automakers open talks on a new national contract. The union’s position on Chrysler may influence talks with , with the outcome representing the latest chapter in the wholesale restructuring of the American auto industry. For now, the U.A.W. is supporting the deal. Its stance represents a reversal from only a month ago, when Ron Gettelfinger, the union president, warned that an equity player might “strip and flip” Chrysler, selling off its most valuable parts for a quick profit. But based on what the union was told of Cerberus’s plans, Mr. Gettelfinger said Monday that the U.A.W. was “confident enough to say that we support this transaction.” That support may dwindle as the company and the union start discussing specifics. The most obvious way for Cerberus to make money off its investment is to cut costs — especially by reducing the benefits that workers hold sacred, including medical benefits for workers and their immediate families for life, with only modest co-payments or deductibles. “They’re going to want us to give something up,” Tim Preston, 50, a tradesman at Chrysler’s Jefferson Avenue North assembly plant in Detroit, said Monday. Chrysler, in fact, has already tried. Last year, the U.A.W. refused to give Chrysler the same concessions on medical costs that it granted G.M. and Ford, which it deemed in far worse shape. The union also refused to grant deep wage and benefit cuts to the , G.M.’s former parts subsidiary, which had reached agreement to sell itself to Cerberus if a labor deal could be reached. Company and union leaders say those talks are not dead, however. Except for the early 1980s, when the union granted concessions at all three car companies, labor talks have been fruitful for the U.A.W. in recent decades, as it has continued to make gains in wages and benefits even as tens of thousands of jobs have been eliminated. That trend was broken in the last couple of years when the union agreed to buyouts and retirement incentives for workers and agreed to concessions at G.M. and Ford. By showing their support Monday for the Cerberus deal, U.A.W. leaders may have been trying to set the tricky groundwork of making the prospect of concessions palatable to union members as a way to keep Chrysler competitive. “It does promise some creative and maybe not-business-as-usual solutions,” said John Paul MacDuffie, co-director of the International Motor Vehicle Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology No requests have been made of the union yet, but both Mr. Gettelfinger and senior Chrysler executives say there seems to be a meeting of minds. “We have been led to believe that they are very concerned about the American automobile industry,” said Mr. Gettelfinger, who spent four hours with Chrysler executives this weekend being briefed. His reaction was clearly a relief to the Cerberus chairman, , the former Treasury secretary, who joined officials in Stuttgart, Germany, at a news conference on Monday. “We’re going to work to make sure this company succeeds, and as the company succeeds, it will maximize opportunities for workers,” Mr. Snow said. “Our objective is a successful Chrysler and a successful Chrysler creates opportunities.” Some workers, however, were skeptical. “It makes me real nervous,” said Anthony Watson, 36, a chassis assembly worker at Chrysler’s truck plant in Warren, Mich. Richard Burns, 39, an assembly line worker at the Warren plant, just north of Detroit, said he and many of his colleagues did not know much about Cerberus. “We’re scared they’re going to break us up,” he said. Cerberus officials insisted Monday that was not the case. Under the complicated deal, Cerberus will take an 80.1 percent stake in the new company, to be known as Chrysler Holding. Of the $7.4 billion, Cerberus agreed to invest $5 billion in the new Chrysler and $1.05 billion in Chrysler’s financial arm. The remaining $1.35 billion will go to the former German parent company. Nick Bunkley contributed reporting. Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler DETROIT'S SLUMP COULD BREAK UP CHRYSLER GROUP U.A.W. Head Rules Out Concessions Union Organizing Remains Muddled In Chrysler Pact Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15Auto.html In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Illustration by 2007 AUBURN HILLS, Mich., May 14 — Can private equity investors fix Chrysler for good, and can they avoid a confrontation with the Story With Micheline Maynard ( Statement by Ron Gettelfinger, U.A.W. President Micheline Maynard on NPR's Marketplace Micheline Maynard on NPR's Here and Now What should Chrysler do with its cars? A big scalp for private equity. Go to Blog » Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground These are the most pressing questions to arise from the deal announced Monday for Cerberus Capital Management, which specializes in restructuring troubled companies, to pay a total of $7.4 billion to take control of Chrysler, with most of that money to be invested in the newly independent company. By unwinding a nine-year-old merger between Chrysler and Daimler-Benz of Germany, Cerberus is also taking on Chrysler’s $18 billion obligation for health care and pensions for employees and retirees. Any efforts to sharply reduce those perks — which Chrysler can afford but says represent a cost burden of $1,500 a vehicle — will probably put it at odds with the U.A.W. The issue will take on added importance in two months, when the union and Detroit automakers open talks on a new national contract. The union’s position on Chrysler may influence talks with , with the outcome representing the latest chapter in the wholesale restructuring of the American auto industry. For now, the U.A.W. is supporting the deal. Its stance represents a reversal from only a month ago, when Ron Gettelfinger, the union president, warned that an equity player might “strip and flip” Chrysler, selling off its most valuable parts for a quick profit. But based on what the union was told of Cerberus’s plans, Mr. Gettelfinger said Monday that the U.A.W. was “confident enough to say that we support this transaction.” That support may dwindle as the company and the union start discussing specifics. The most obvious way for Cerberus to make money off its investment is to cut costs — especially by reducing the benefits that workers hold sacred, including medical benefits for workers and their immediate families for life, with only modest co-payments or deductibles. “They’re going to want us to give something up,” Tim Preston, 50, a tradesman at Chrysler’s Jefferson Avenue North assembly plant in Detroit, said Monday. Chrysler, in fact, has already tried. Last year, the U.A.W. refused to give Chrysler the same concessions on medical costs that it granted G.M. and Ford, which it deemed in far worse shape. The union also refused to grant deep wage and benefit cuts to the , G.M.’s former parts subsidiary, which had reached agreement to sell itself to Cerberus if a labor deal could be reached. Company and union leaders say those talks are not dead, however. Except for the early 1980s, when the union granted concessions at all three car companies, labor talks have been fruitful for the U.A.W. in recent decades, as it has continued to make gains in wages and benefits even as tens of thousands of jobs have been eliminated. That trend was broken in the last couple of years when the union agreed to buyouts and retirement incentives for workers and agreed to concessions at G.M. and Ford. By showing their support Monday for the Cerberus deal, U.A.W. leaders may have been trying to set the tricky groundwork of making the prospect of concessions palatable to union members as a way to keep Chrysler competitive. “It does promise some creative and maybe not-business-as-usual solutions,” said John Paul MacDuffie, co-director of the International Motor Vehicle Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology No requests have been made of the union yet, but both Mr. Gettelfinger and senior Chrysler executives say there seems to be a meeting of minds. “We have been led to believe that they are very concerned about the American automobile industry,” said Mr. Gettelfinger, who spent four hours with Chrysler executives this weekend being briefed. His reaction was clearly a relief to the Cerberus chairman, , the former Treasury secretary, who joined officials in Stuttgart, Germany, at a news conference on Monday. “We’re going to work to make sure this company succeeds, and as the company succeeds, it will maximize opportunities for workers,” Mr. Snow said. “Our objective is a successful Chrysler and a successful Chrysler creates opportunities.” Some workers, however, were skeptical. “It makes me real nervous,” said Anthony Watson, 36, a chassis assembly worker at Chrysler’s truck plant in Warren, Mich. Richard Burns, 39, an assembly line worker at the Warren plant, just north of Detroit, said he and many of his colleagues did not know much about Cerberus. “We’re scared they’re going to break us up,” he said. Cerberus officials insisted Monday that was not the case. Under the complicated deal, Cerberus will take an 80.1 percent stake in the new company, to be known as Chrysler Holding. Of the $7.4 billion, Cerberus agreed to invest $5 billion in the new Chrysler and $1.05 billion in Chrysler’s financial arm. The remaining $1.35 billion will go to the former German parent company. Nick Bunkley contributed reporting. Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler DETROIT'S SLUMP COULD BREAK UP CHRYSLER GROUP U.A.W. Head Rules Out Concessions Union Organizing Remains Muddled In Chrysler Pact Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15lasorda.html?ex=1336881600&en=44273ee75ca61998&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground - Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground 2007 He comes from a long line of unionized autoworkers, but Thomas W. LaSorda’s collar is unmistakably white. Skip to next paragraph Thomas W. LaSorda once worked on Chrysler&#146;s assembly line. News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap As chief executive of Chrysler for the last two years, he has spoken of the benefits of sending work to Mexico. He has signed off on a plan to cut Chrysler’s work force by 13,000 and close all or part of four plants by 2009. And now he has proclaimed his confidence that private equity can rescue Chrysler, despite serious reservations among the rank and file. “Tom is the chief executive officer,” said Basil E. Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Automobile Workers union, who has known Mr. LaSorda’s family for decades. “I was under no illusions about what that meant. It meant that he was a guy we could talk to. But it didn’t mean there wouldn’t be cutbacks or layoffs.” His family’s history has been tightly bound to Chrysler’s since before he was born. His grandfather, Harry Rooney, helped organize Chrysler workers in Windsor, Ontario, in the 1940s, despite the company’s attempts to throw him in jail. Mr. LaSorda’s mother, Bea, used to stand watch for Chrysler company men as her father signed up workers in their basement. Frank LaSorda, Thomas’s father, also a Chrysler employee, eventually became president of the same Windsor union local that his father-in-law helped start. In all, three generations of LaSordas and Rooneys have been union leaders, electricians, janitors and line workers at Chrysler. Thomas LaSorda, who as a teenager worked on the assembly line but has otherwise spent his entire career on the business side of the auto industry, has vowed to “turn over all the rocks” at Chrysler to determine where cuts can be made. Now he has a new management team looking over his shoulder that will want to see that those cuts are made as efficiently as possible. Chrysler said yesterday that Cerberus Capital Management, the New York private equity firm, was buying a controlling stake for $7.4 billion. Mr. LaSorda must now answer to a board that he could find even more impatient than “Private equity is not a benevolent association,” said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. “You know where these guys come from. It’s an association of people who have dedicated themselves to making money.” Mr. LaSorda seemed to send a signal to workers yesterday that Cerberus was not buying Chrysler to slash and burn it. “There are no new job cuts planned in connection with this transaction,” he said in a written statement. Some experts said that being bought by a private equity firm with considerable liquidity gives Chrysler — and Mr. LaSorda — some time. “This is not a buy and dump situation,” said George Magliano, director of North American automotive research for Global Insight. “There’s got to be some patience here.” Thomas T. Stallkamp, a former Chrysler president who is now a partner in the New York private equity firm Ripplewood Holdings, said that Cerberus appears to be willing to give Mr. LaSorda a shot at running the company. “I think he’s gotten a little bit of a reprieve, and maybe he can run his own show,” Mr. Stallkamp said. “I think that’s the way most private equity firms operate. They don’t come in and parachute in new management right away. He’s been fettered by being under the wing of DaimlerChrysler bureaucracy, so they’re going to see what he can do on his own.” If the deal goes through, Mr. LaSorda is entitled to severance benefits worth $4.26 million for leaving the DaimlerChrysler board — twice the sum of his salary and annual bonus, according to an analysis of securities filings by James F. Reda and Associates. Mr. LaSorda’s pension will also be bolstered by two extra years of service credit. Eric Dash contributed reporting. Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Economix: Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Bumped Fliers and No Plan B In India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Not to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15lasorda.html?ex=1336881600&en=44273ee75ca61998&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground 2007 He comes from a long line of unionized autoworkers, but Thomas W. LaSorda’s collar is unmistakably white. W. LaSorda once worked on Chrysler&#146;s assembly line. News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap As chief executive of Chrysler for the last two years, he has spoken of the benefits of sending work to Mexico. He has signed off on a plan to cut Chrysler’s work force by 13,000 and close all or part of four plants by 2009. And now he has proclaimed his confidence that private equity can rescue Chrysler, despite serious reservations among the rank and file. “Tom is the chief executive officer,” said Basil E. Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Automobile Workers union, who has known Mr. LaSorda’s family for decades. “I was under no illusions about what that meant. It meant that he was a guy we could talk to. But it didn’t mean there wouldn’t be cutbacks or layoffs.” His family’s history has been tightly bound to Chrysler’s since before he was born. His grandfather, Harry Rooney, helped organize Chrysler workers in Windsor, Ontario, in the 1940s, despite the company’s attempts to throw him in jail. Mr. LaSorda’s mother, Bea, used to stand watch for Chrysler company men as her father signed up workers in their basement. Frank LaSorda, Thomas’s father, also a Chrysler employee, eventually became president of the same Windsor union local that his father-in-law helped start. In all, three generations of LaSordas and Rooneys have been union leaders, electricians, janitors and line workers at Chrysler. Thomas LaSorda, who as a teenager worked on the assembly line but has otherwise spent his entire career on the business side of the auto industry, has vowed to “turn over all the rocks” at Chrysler to determine where cuts can be made. Now he has a new management team looking over his shoulder that will want to see that those cuts are made as efficiently as possible. Chrysler said yesterday that Cerberus Capital Management, the New York private equity firm, was buying a controlling stake for $7.4 billion. Mr. LaSorda must now answer to a board that he could find even more impatient than “Private equity is not a benevolent association,” said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. “You know where these guys come from. It’s an association of people who have dedicated themselves to making money.” Mr. LaSorda seemed to send a signal to workers yesterday that Cerberus was not buying Chrysler to slash and burn it. “There are no new job cuts planned in connection with this transaction,” he said in a written statement. Some experts said that being bought by a private equity firm with considerable liquidity gives Chrysler — and Mr. LaSorda — some time. “This is not a buy and dump situation,” said George Magliano, director of North American automotive research for Global Insight. “There’s got to be some patience here.” Thomas T. Stallkamp, a former Chrysler president who is now a partner in the New York private equity firm Ripplewood Holdings, said that Cerberus appears to be willing to give Mr. LaSorda a shot at running the company. “I think he’s gotten a little bit of a reprieve, and maybe he can run his own show,” Mr. Stallkamp said. “I think that’s the way most private equity firms operate. They don’t come in and parachute in new management right away. He’s been fettered by being under the wing of DaimlerChrysler bureaucracy, so they’re going to see what he can do on his own.” If the deal goes through, Mr. LaSorda is entitled to severance benefits worth $4.26 million for leaving the DaimlerChrysler board — twice the sum of his salary and annual bonus, according to an analysis of securities filings by James F. Reda and Associates. Mr. LaSorda’s pension will also be bolstered by two extra years of service credit. Eric Dash contributed reporting. Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Bumped Fliers and No Plan B Economix: India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/worldbusiness/15daimler.html?ex=1336881600&en=c4abb1cdcfe8b4a0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap - Corporate Divorce on the Cheap 2007 STUTTGART, Germany, May 14 — Nine years after they exchanged vows at a huge, lavishly choreographed news conference in London, Daimler and Chrysler signed their divorce papers Monday at a sparsely attended briefing in an auditorium at an aging Mercedes-Benz factory here. Skip to next paragraph From left, Thomas LaSorda of Chrysler, John Snow of Cerberus and Dieter Zetsche of Daimler at a news briefing Monday. News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground As bookends, the two news conferences vividly illustrated the dashed dreams of the Daimler-Chrysler marriage. At least for one partner, though, the sale of Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management represents a potentially invigorating emancipation. Daimler, now largely free of its struggling American partner, can look ahead to what analysts generally agree is a promising future as a stand-alone maker of trucks and luxury cars. “I’m very optimistic,” said Adam Jonas of in London. “Daimler is the largest truck company in the world and one of the most valuable premium car companies in the world.” The price of freedom for the soon-to-be-renamed Daimler A.G. is $677 million in cash — its out-of-pocket outlay in the $7.4 billion transaction — for Cerberus to take Chrysler off its hands. It is also shedding nearly $18 billion in health care and pension liabilities. For a merger once valued at $36 billion, it was a humiliating comedown. Nor are Chrysler’s long-term prospects clear. Cerberus dispatched its chairman, , the former secretary of the Treasury, to Stuttgart to drum up excitement about Chrysler’s future and to reassure managers and workers that the investment firm is not going to turn Chrysler inside out. Among Daimler executives here, however, there was a sense that they got the good end of the bargain. The company’s businesses — trucks, buses and luxury cars — are among the fastest-growing and most profitable segments in the industry. And Mercedes-Benz, after a period in which it suffered from quality concerns and eroding profits, is on an upswing. “There are more people with higher incomes,” said Garel Rhys, director of the Center for Automotive Industry Research at Cardiff University in Wales, “and they are living longer, so they have time to buy these cars.” Though it will become much smaller, Daimler will have a stronger balance sheet, a hoard of cash and a clear focus. “The new Daimler will stand on a very solid foundation,” the chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, said. None of this dispelled a palpable sense of regret on the part of Mr. Zetsche, who made his reputation running Chrysler and even lent his image to television commercials for its vehicles. The company will retain a 19.9 percent stake in Chrysler. “We obviously overestimated the potential of synergies,” Mr. Zetsche said of the 1998 merger. “I don’t know if any amount of due diligence could have given us a better estimate in that regard.” Daimler, he said, was not able to exploit the combination of its highly engineered Mercedes-Benz luxury cars with the mass-market vehicles of Chrysler because American motorists could not, or would not, pay a premium for a Chrysler equipped with Mercedes technology. What Daimler encountered instead were the unforgiving vagaries of the American car market. Chrysler lost $1.5 billion last year, and the losses are expected to continue this year. Finally, Mr. Zetsche said, could no longer bear the pressure on its profits or share price. DaimlerChrysler stock closed up nearly 2 percent in Frankfurt trading on Monday, after jumping as much as 7.8 percent when news of the agreement with Cerberus was reported. It has risen 25 percent since Mr. Zetsche disclosed in February that the company was considering alternatives, including a divestiture. Mr. Zetsche insisted that Chrysler did not drain cash from Mercedes. Despite its recent losses, it generated nearly $15 billion in cumulative profits during the years it was owned by Daimler. But analysts said Daimler could have found better uses for the cash it poured into Chrysler. “They spent about $60 billion acquiring, restructuring and investing in Chrysler over the last nine years,” Mr. Jonas of Morgan Stanley said. “Just think where the next $60 billion could go if it was invested properly.” Among other things, he said, Mercedes-Benz could introduce more innovative and alluring cars to compete with German brands like BMW and Audi. BMW, which has taken the mantle of the world’s top luxury carmaker in recent years, may feel new heat from its old rival. on Verge of Sale to a Private Firm Cerberus&#8217;s Strategic Plan May Finally Be Paying Off Guardedly Kicking the Tires on Chrysler Again, Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Economix: Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Bumped Fliers and No Plan B In India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Not to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/worldbusiness/15daimler.html?ex=1336881600&en=c4abb1cdcfe8b4a0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap Corporate Divorce on the Cheap 2007 STUTTGART, Germany, May 14 — Nine years after they exchanged vows at a huge, lavishly choreographed news conference in London, Daimler and Chrysler signed their divorce papers Monday at a sparsely attended briefing in an auditorium at an aging Mercedes-Benz factory here. left, Thomas LaSorda of Chrysler, John Snow of Cerberus and Dieter Zetsche of Daimler at a news briefing Monday. News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground As bookends, the two news conferences vividly illustrated the dashed dreams of the Daimler-Chrysler marriage. At least for one partner, though, the sale of Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management represents a potentially invigorating emancipation. Daimler, now largely free of its struggling American partner, can look ahead to what analysts generally agree is a promising future as a stand-alone maker of trucks and luxury cars. “I’m very optimistic,” said Adam Jonas of in London. “Daimler is the largest truck company in the world and one of the most valuable premium car companies in the world.” The price of freedom for the soon-to-be-renamed Daimler A.G. is $677 million in cash — its out-of-pocket outlay in the $7.4 billion transaction — for Cerberus to take Chrysler off its hands. It is also shedding nearly $18 billion in health care and pension liabilities. For a merger once valued at $36 billion, it was a humiliating comedown. Nor are Chrysler’s long-term prospects clear. Cerberus dispatched its chairman, , the former secretary of the Treasury, to Stuttgart to drum up excitement about Chrysler’s future and to reassure managers and workers that the investment firm is not going to turn Chrysler inside out. Among Daimler executives here, however, there was a sense that they got the good end of the bargain. The company’s businesses — trucks, buses and luxury cars — are among the fastest-growing and most profitable segments in the industry. And Mercedes-Benz, after a period in which it suffered from quality concerns and eroding profits, is on an upswing. “There are more people with higher incomes,” said Garel Rhys, director of the Center for Automotive Industry Research at Cardiff University in Wales, “and they are living longer, so they have time to buy these cars.” Though it will become much smaller, Daimler will have a stronger balance sheet, a hoard of cash and a clear focus. “The new Daimler will stand on a very solid foundation,” the chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, said. None of this dispelled a palpable sense of regret on the part of Mr. Zetsche, who made his reputation running Chrysler and even lent his image to television commercials for its vehicles. The company will retain a 19.9 percent stake in Chrysler. “We obviously overestimated the potential of synergies,” Mr. Zetsche said of the 1998 merger. “I don’t know if any amount of due diligence could have given us a better estimate in that regard.” Daimler, he said, was not able to exploit the combination of its highly engineered Mercedes-Benz luxury cars with the mass-market vehicles of Chrysler because American motorists could not, or would not, pay a premium for a Chrysler equipped with Mercedes technology. What Daimler encountered instead were the unforgiving vagaries of the American car market. Chrysler lost $1.5 billion last year, and the losses are expected to continue this year. Finally, Mr. Zetsche said, could no longer bear the pressure on its profits or share price. DaimlerChrysler stock closed up nearly 2 percent in Frankfurt trading on Monday, after jumping as much as 7.8 percent when news of the agreement with Cerberus was reported. It has risen 25 percent since Mr. Zetsche disclosed in February that the company was considering alternatives, including a divestiture. Mr. Zetsche insisted that Chrysler did not drain cash from Mercedes. Despite its recent losses, it generated nearly $15 billion in cumulative profits during the years it was owned by Daimler. But analysts said Daimler could have found better uses for the cash it poured into Chrysler. “They spent about $60 billion acquiring, restructuring and investing in Chrysler over the last nine years,” Mr. Jonas of Morgan Stanley said. “Just think where the next $60 billion could go if it was invested properly.” Among other things, he said, Mercedes-Benz could introduce more innovative and alluring cars to compete with German brands like BMW and Audi. BMW, which has taken the mantle of the world’s top luxury carmaker in recent years, may feel new heat from its old rival. on Verge of Sale to a Private Firm Cerberus&#8217;s Strategic Plan May Finally Be Paying Off Guardedly Kicking the Tires on Chrysler Again, Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Bumped Fliers and No Plan B Economix: India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/business/16auto.html?ex=1336968000&en=f50d88b169c93dbd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Auto Union Leader Finds Comfort Level - Union Leader Finds Comfort Level Jeff Kowalsky/European Pressphoto Agency Thomas W. LaSorda, Chrysler&#146;s chief, said he would keep using the services of a former Chrysler president. 2007 DETROIT, May 15 — Ron Gettelfinger, president of the union, is a man of few words, so it is never easy to be sure what he is thinking. Skip to next paragraph Ron Gettelfinger, the U.A.W. chief, at a news briefing Monday. That is especially true now because what little he has said about the sale of the Chrysler Group to Cerberus Capital Management, a private investment firm, has been contradictory. A month ago, he warned that a private buyer might “strip and flip” Chrysler for profit, ignoring the best interests of its unionized workers, whose job security and benefits he is trying to protect. But on Monday, Mr. Gettelfinger said the sale was the solution that best met his members’ needs. That sharp reversal might threaten the credibility of a different labor leader in a similarly delicate spot, analysts noted. But those who know Mr. Gettelfinger, 62, say his actions are more important than his words. What he has managed to do, by all accounts, is to strike a balance. He must appear strong to his members, whose ranks have been thinned by the crisis facing Detroit. But he also has to help the automakers get back on stable ground or risk further cutbacks at , Chrysler and the parts suppliers that the union represents. “There are no good options on the bargaining table now,” said Gary N. Chaison, professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. “There are only bad options and worse options.” said that its Chrysler division lost $1.98 billion in the first quarter, including revamping charges, in contrast to a profit of $857 million in the period a year earlier. (Daimler earned $2.67 billion in the first three months of the year, more than double its profit the year before.) The situation in Detroit arguably puts more pressure on Mr. Gettelfinger than any other U.A.W. president has faced since the early 1980s, when the union was forced to grant concessions to each of the auto companies in order to help save them. That could explain his testiness on Monday, when Mr. Gettelfinger appeared to run out of patience with journalists pushing him to explain why he now supported the sale when he had insisted that the union preferred to see Chrysler remain part of DaimlerChrysler. “O.K., I’m going to go over this one last time,” he said, interrupting a questioner. “The status quo was off the table. Cerberus was the only company that we discussed” with DaimlerChrysler’s chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, at a four-hour meeting in Stuttgart, Germany, on Saturday. Mr. Gettelfinger added, “The decision was made before we ever got there” that the meeting would focus only on the Cerberus bid. Given that, he said, the union saw little choice but to support it. But there appears to have been another reason for the reversal: the presence as a consultant to Cerberus of a former Chrysler president, Wolfgang Bernhard, people familiar with Mr. Gettelfinger’s thinking said Tuesday. Mr. Gettelfinger, who sits on the DaimlerChrysler supervisory board, got to know Mr. Bernhard before the executive left Chrysler for jobs at Mercedes-Benz and With Mr. Bernhard back on the scene, Mr. Gettelfinger felt confident that he had someone he could work with at Cerberus. Mr. Gettelfinger alluded to that Monday, without mentioning Mr. Bernhard by name. “There were a lot of things that we were concerned about,” the union leader said, “but based on everything that we heard, we were confident enough to say that we support this transaction.” Mr. Bernhard met Tuesday with the Chrysler chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, who said that Mr. Bernhard would serve as a “key adviser,” but not join Chrysler’s management. “I’ll use him when I need him,” Mr. LaSorda said. Mr. Gettelfinger met Tuesday with the chief executive of Cerberus, Stephen A. Feinberg, who spoke to Chrysler officials on Monday night and explained the private equity firm’s plans for the automaker. Personal connections count for a lot with Mr. Gettelfinger, whose first job was at Ford’s truck plant in Louisville, Ky., and whose voice has Southern traces. In public, his bearing can be reserved, although he is affectionate with his fellow union members, exchanging warm handshakes and manly hugs and greeting members as “brother” or “sister” in the union movement’s tradition. His courtliness is in sharp contrast to his sometimes profane predecessor, the late Stephen P. Yokich, who was known for his public jabs. Mr. Gettelfinger has more in common, in terms of operating style, with Owen Bieber, the union’s president from 1983 to 1995. The more formal bearing of those two men contrasted with the ebullient manner of Douglas A. Fraser, who ran the union more than a quarter-century ago. Mr. Fraser had been the only U.A.W. president since the end of World War II to make significant contract concessions until Mr. Gettelfinger, who agreed to landmark deals at G.M. and Ford in the last two years aimed at reducing health care costs. Mr. Gettelfinger has offered other forms of cooperation to the struggling car companies, although he might not like to see it characterized that way. Last year, he reached agreements with G.M., Ford and Chrysler to provide buyouts and other retirement incentives up to $140,000 to tens of thousands of workers. Many would have lost their jobs anyway because of cuts of nearly 70,000 positions announced by the companies, which are closing more than two dozen factories in the next few years. Because of those deals, the union has not fought the plant-closing decisions, which at an earlier time might have prompted strikes in an effort to keep them open. Mr. Gettelfinger has managed to protect wages and benefits at the auto parts maker , which had demanded deep cuts under bankruptcy protection. Workers there are still earning the $28 an hour in wages and receiving the same pensions and health care benefits they got before the company filed for Chapter 11 status. With contract talks now two months away, it looks unlikely that Delphi workers will give up anything before the union and the automakers sit down to discuss a new national agreement. Those talks are shaping up as less of a showdown than a forum that will allow Mr. Gettelfinger and the companies to forge a path that will take them through the next phase of the industry’s wrenching overhaul. “You have to adapt to the playing field that you’re on, not the playing field that you wish to be on,” said David Gregory, a labor law expert at ANALYSIS; In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Chief Warns Automakers That U.A.W. Won't Budge on Health Care or Jobs Bank Auto Union Head Vows Hard Line Against Concessions DETROIT'S SLUMP COULD BREAK UP CHRYSLER GROUP &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Economix: Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Bumped Fliers and No Plan B In India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Not to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/business/16auto.html?ex=1336968000&en=f50d88b169c93dbd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Auto Union Leader Finds Comfort Level Union Leader Finds Comfort Level Jeff Kowalsky/European Pressphoto Agency Thomas W. LaSorda, Chrysler&#146;s chief, said he would keep using the services of a former Chrysler president. 2007 DETROIT, May 15 — Ron Gettelfinger, president of the union, is a man of few words, so it is never easy to be sure what he is thinking. Gettelfinger, the U.A.W. chief, at a news briefing Monday. That is especially true now because what little he has said about the sale of the Chrysler Group to Cerberus Capital Management, a private investment firm, has been contradictory. A month ago, he warned that a private buyer might “strip and flip” Chrysler for profit, ignoring the best interests of its unionized workers, whose job security and benefits he is trying to protect. But on Monday, Mr. Gettelfinger said the sale was the solution that best met his members’ needs. That sharp reversal might threaten the credibility of a different labor leader in a similarly delicate spot, analysts noted. But those who know Mr. Gettelfinger, 62, say his actions are more important than his words. What he has managed to do, by all accounts, is to strike a balance. He must appear strong to his members, whose ranks have been thinned by the crisis facing Detroit. But he also has to help the automakers get back on stable ground or risk further cutbacks at , Chrysler and the parts suppliers that the union represents. “There are no good options on the bargaining table now,” said Gary N. Chaison, professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. “There are only bad options and worse options.” said that its Chrysler division lost $1.98 billion in the first quarter, including revamping charges, in contrast to a profit of $857 million in the period a year earlier. (Daimler earned $2.67 billion in the first three months of the year, more than double its profit the year before.) The situation in Detroit arguably puts more pressure on Mr. Gettelfinger than any other U.A.W. president has faced since the early 1980s, when the union was forced to grant concessions to each of the auto companies in order to help save them. That could explain his testiness on Monday, when Mr. Gettelfinger appeared to run out of patience with journalists pushing him to explain why he now supported the sale when he had insisted that the union preferred to see Chrysler remain part of DaimlerChrysler. “O.K., I’m going to go over this one last time,” he said, interrupting a questioner. “The status quo was off the table. Cerberus was the only company that we discussed” with DaimlerChrysler’s chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, at a four-hour meeting in Stuttgart, Germany, on Saturday. Mr. Gettelfinger added, “The decision was made before we ever got there” that the meeting would focus only on the Cerberus bid. Given that, he said, the union saw little choice but to support it. But there appears to have been another reason for the reversal: the presence as a consultant to Cerberus of a former Chrysler president, Wolfgang Bernhard, people familiar with Mr. Gettelfinger’s thinking said Tuesday. Mr. Gettelfinger, who sits on the DaimlerChrysler supervisory board, got to know Mr. Bernhard before the executive left Chrysler for jobs at Mercedes-Benz and With Mr. Bernhard back on the scene, Mr. Gettelfinger felt confident that he had someone he could work with at Cerberus. Mr. Gettelfinger alluded to that Monday, without mentioning Mr. Bernhard by name. “There were a lot of things that we were concerned about,” the union leader said, “but based on everything that we heard, we were confident enough to say that we support this transaction.” Mr. Bernhard met Tuesday with the Chrysler chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, who said that Mr. Bernhard would serve as a “key adviser,” but not join Chrysler’s management. “I’ll use him when I need him,” Mr. LaSorda said. Mr. Gettelfinger met Tuesday with the chief executive of Cerberus, Stephen A. Feinberg, who spoke to Chrysler officials on Monday night and explained the private equity firm’s plans for the automaker. Personal connections count for a lot with Mr. Gettelfinger, whose first job was at Ford’s truck plant in Louisville, Ky., and whose voice has Southern traces. In public, his bearing can be reserved, although he is affectionate with his fellow union members, exchanging warm handshakes and manly hugs and greeting members as “brother” or “sister” in the union movement’s tradition. His courtliness is in sharp contrast to his sometimes profane predecessor, the late Stephen P. Yokich, who was known for his public jabs. Mr. Gettelfinger has more in common, in terms of operating style, with Owen Bieber, the union’s president from 1983 to 1995. The more formal bearing of those two men contrasted with the ebullient manner of Douglas A. Fraser, who ran the union more than a quarter-century ago. Mr. Fraser had been the only U.A.W. president since the end of World War II to make significant contract concessions until Mr. Gettelfinger, who agreed to landmark deals at G.M. and Ford in the last two years aimed at reducing health care costs. Mr. Gettelfinger has offered other forms of cooperation to the struggling car companies, although he might not like to see it characterized that way. Last year, he reached agreements with G.M., Ford and Chrysler to provide buyouts and other retirement incentives up to $140,000 to tens of thousands of workers. Many would have lost their jobs anyway because of cuts of nearly 70,000 positions announced by the companies, which are closing more than two dozen factories in the next few years. Because of those deals, the union has not fought the plant-closing decisions, which at an earlier time might have prompted strikes in an effort to keep them open. Mr. Gettelfinger has managed to protect wages and benefits at the auto parts maker , which had demanded deep cuts under bankruptcy protection. Workers there are still earning the $28 an hour in wages and receiving the same pensions and health care benefits they got before the company filed for Chapter 11 status. With contract talks now two months away, it looks unlikely that Delphi workers will give up anything before the union and the automakers sit down to discuss a new national agreement. Those talks are shaping up as less of a showdown than a forum that will allow Mr. Gettelfinger and the companies to forge a path that will take them through the next phase of the industry’s wrenching overhaul. “You have to adapt to the playing field that you’re on, not the playing field that you wish to be on,” said David Gregory, a labor law expert at ANALYSIS; In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Chief Warns Automakers That U.A.W. Won't Budge on Health Care or Jobs Bank Auto Union Head Vows Hard Line Against Concessions DETROIT'S SLUMP COULD BREAK UP CHRYSLER GROUP &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Bumped Fliers and No Plan B Economix: India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/world/asia/16tolls.html In China, It&#8217;s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls - China, It’s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls Du Bin for Chen Village, Mr. Wang, right, and Mr. Gu guard a barrier set up on a local road to deter out-of-town motorists from evading the toll on a nearby highway. 2007 CHEN VILLAGE, China — Few motorists in any country brighten at the sight of tollbooths ahead. In China, which is building more toll roads than any other country in the world, legions of drivers are trying almost anything to avoid them. Skip to next paragraph Du Bin for a highway two miles from Chen Village, vehicles must stop at this toll station. To avoid paying, drivers often detour through the village. In Chongqing, a sprawling municipality in central China, so many owners of private cars and trucks are using fraudulent toll-exempt military plates that one toll highway has estimated its annual losses at roughly 10 million yuan, or $1.2 million. In March a driver outfitted his vehicle like an ambulance, with flashing lights and an emergency response phone number painted on the side. He then raced through a highway tollbooth as if rushing to a hospital, until the police arrested him. For centuries, commoner and collector have waged a volatile contest in China that has occasionally toppled dynasties but never quite been resolved. Leaders of the current dynasty, the Communist Party, are worried enough about angry peasants that they lifted the centuries-old agriculture tax as a populist gesture. Tolls are another matter. By 2020, if all goes as planned, China will have completed almost 53,000 miles of expressways, a network roughly equivalent to the Interstate System in the United States. China considers expressways crucial to maintaining its economic growth and developing its western and interior provinces. But the cost is so exorbitant that China is financing much of the system with tolls that are, by Chinese standards, pricey. Two people who should know are Mr. Wang and Mr. Gu. The two men — who were nervous about divulging their first names to a snooping foreigner — are posted at a dingy intersection in this farming village in Hebei Province. Not far away is a highway tollbooth. Every day cars and heavy trucks, as steady and determined as a trail of ants, try to skip the toll by cutting through the village on a narrow road. Mr. Wang, 65, and Mr. Gu, 58, try to send them back. They say the tollbooth operator is paying the village a monthly fee to help crack down on toll jumpers. For its part the village is trying to stop heavy trucks from ruining its roads. The two men regulate traffic with a long, crooked stick that goes up and down like a crude crossing barrier. Mr. Gu does the talking. Mr. Wang wields the stick. “Can I get through?” one motorist asked on a recent afternoon as other cars waited. “No,” Mr. Gu replied. Only local people are allowed to pass. “Is there any other way around the toll?” the driver asked, smiling. “Come on, let me through.” Toll road building has been so feverish in China that roughly 25,000 miles of toll expressways were built from 1990 to 2005, according to the . At the same time, the country has been adding millions of new cars to the roads every year, a seemingly perfect combination of vehicles and toll roads. But Chinese are famous economizers, and beyond that, tolls are expensive compared with income levels. A recent World Bank report on China’s highway construction program found that the toll roads were charging roughly the same as the German toll system — about 25 cents a mile for trucks — despite far lower incomes in China. It costs $1.30 to go from the Beijing airport to the city, and about $5 for the roughly 25-mile trip from the capital’s northeastern suburbs to the Great Wall. Not all that much for a Westerner, but a lot here, where an average farmer — most of whom cannot afford cars — makes less than $400 a year and urban factory workers can average roughly $1,000 or perhaps a bit more. “The price of the tolls is an issue,” said Greg Wood, a consultant who worked on the World Bank report. Mr. Wood said China needed to ensure that prices did not inhibit traffic from growing to the levels necessary to pay off the debt on the roads. As toll roads have expanded, many areas nearby have become toll escape zones. Mr. Wood said some private companies investing in toll roads were demanding the right to collect tolls on adjacent roads as one means of curbing toll jumpers. On the outskirts of Beijing it is common to see lines of trucks stretching for several miles along a narrow two-lane highway as they try to avoid the toll on the faster highway nearby. &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect Bumpy Ride on a Brazilian Highway, and Long Waits at Either End In Chinese Boomtown, Middle Class Pushes Back World Briefing | Asia: China: Sometimes You Can't Teach An Old Dog Guangzhou Journal; First Comes the Car, Then the $10,000 License Plate &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands NEW YORK: 365 DAYS Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/world/asia/16tolls.html In China, It&#8217;s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls China, It’s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls Du Bin for Chen Village, Mr. Wang, right, and Mr. Gu guard a barrier set up on a local road to deter out-of-town motorists from evading the toll on a nearby highway. 2007 CHEN VILLAGE, China — Few motorists in any country brighten at the sight of tollbooths ahead. In China, which is building more toll roads than any other country in the world, legions of drivers are trying almost anything to avoid them. Bin for a highway two miles from Chen Village, vehicles must stop at this toll station. To avoid paying, drivers often detour through the village. In Chongqing, a sprawling municipality in central China, so many owners of private cars and trucks are using fraudulent toll-exempt military plates that one toll highway has estimated its annual losses at roughly 10 million yuan, or $1.2 million. In March a driver outfitted his vehicle like an ambulance, with flashing lights and an emergency response phone number painted on the side. He then raced through a highway tollbooth as if rushing to a hospital, until the police arrested him. For centuries, commoner and collector have waged a volatile contest in China that has occasionally toppled dynasties but never quite been resolved. Leaders of the current dynasty, the Communist Party, are worried enough about angry peasants that they lifted the centuries-old agriculture tax as a populist gesture. Tolls are another matter. By 2020, if all goes as planned, China will have completed almost 53,000 miles of expressways, a network roughly equivalent to the Interstate System in the United States. China considers expressways crucial to maintaining its economic growth and developing its western and interior provinces. But the cost is so exorbitant that China is financing much of the system with tolls that are, by Chinese standards, pricey. Two people who should know are Mr. Wang and Mr. Gu. The two men — who were nervous about divulging their first names to a snooping foreigner — are posted at a dingy intersection in this farming village in Hebei Province. Not far away is a highway tollbooth. Every day cars and heavy trucks, as steady and determined as a trail of ants, try to skip the toll by cutting through the village on a narrow road. Mr. Wang, 65, and Mr. Gu, 58, try to send them back. They say the tollbooth operator is paying the village a monthly fee to help crack down on toll jumpers. For its part the village is trying to stop heavy trucks from ruining its roads. The two men regulate traffic with a long, crooked stick that goes up and down like a crude crossing barrier. Mr. Gu does the talking. Mr. Wang wields the stick. “Can I get through?” one motorist asked on a recent afternoon as other cars waited. “No,” Mr. Gu replied. Only local people are allowed to pass. “Is there any other way around the toll?” the driver asked, smiling. “Come on, let me through.” Toll road building has been so feverish in China that roughly 25,000 miles of toll expressways were built from 1990 to 2005, according to the . At the same time, the country has been adding millions of new cars to the roads every year, a seemingly perfect combination of vehicles and toll roads. But Chinese are famous economizers, and beyond that, tolls are expensive compared with income levels. A recent World Bank report on China’s highway construction program found that the toll roads were charging roughly the same as the German toll system — about 25 cents a mile for trucks — despite far lower incomes in China. It costs $1.30 to go from the Beijing airport to the city, and about $5 for the roughly 25-mile trip from the capital’s northeastern suburbs to the Great Wall. Not all that much for a Westerner, but a lot here, where an average farmer — most of whom cannot afford cars — makes less than $400 a year and urban factory workers can average roughly $1,000 or perhaps a bit more. “The price of the tolls is an issue,” said Greg Wood, a consultant who worked on the World Bank report. Mr. Wood said China needed to ensure that prices did not inhibit traffic from growing to the levels necessary to pay off the debt on the roads. As toll roads have expanded, many areas nearby have become toll escape zones. Mr. Wood said some private companies investing in toll roads were demanding the right to collect tolls on adjacent roads as one means of curbing toll jumpers. On the outskirts of Beijing it is common to see lines of trucks stretching for several miles along a narrow two-lane highway as they try to avoid the toll on the faster highway nearby. Bumpy Ride on a Brazilian Highway, and Long Waits at Either End In Chinese Boomtown, Middle Class Pushes Back World Briefing | Asia: China: Sometimes You Can't Teach An Old Dog Guangzhou Journal; First Comes the Car, Then the $10,000 License Plate &#x00bb; in the Fog - 2005
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/17/business/17gm.html G.M. May Sell a Unit - May Sell a Unit 2007 may sell its midsize truck business as it focuses on making profits from cars and light trucks. &#8220;We are considering options for our medium-duty truck business to better position the unit for growth,&#8221; a spokeswoman, Melisa Tezanos, said yesterday. She would not comment on potential buyers. The unit last year built 40,800 Chevrolet Kodiak, GMC TopKick and Isuzu T-Series models, for use as dump trucks and delivery vehicles. The Flint Journal in Michigan reported this week that might be interested in a deal for the unit. A spokesman for Navistar, Roy Wiley, declined to comment. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. G.M. Turnaround Gains Little Traction A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot High Court Puts Limits On Patents &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands LIVE WELL ON LESS THAN YOU THINK Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/17/business/17gm.html G.M. May Sell a Unit May Sell a Unit 2007 may sell its midsize truck business as it focuses on making profits from cars and light trucks. &#8220;We are considering options for our medium-duty truck business to better position the unit for growth,&#8221; a spokeswoman, Melisa Tezanos, said yesterday. She would not comment on potential buyers. The unit last year built 40,800 Chevrolet Kodiak, GMC TopKick and Isuzu T-Series models, for use as dump trucks and delivery vehicles. The Flint Journal in Michigan reported this week that might be interested in a deal for the unit. A spokesman for Navistar, Roy Wiley, declined to comment. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. G.M. Turnaround Gains Little Traction A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot High Court Puts Limits On Patents &#x00bb; a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/17/business/worldbusiness/17daimler.html?ex=1337054400&en=9d56e7bdc1ac320a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Chrysler Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says - Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says 2007 STUTTGART, Germany, May 16 &#151; On Monday evening at Chrysler&#8217;s offices in Auburn Hills, Mich., Dieter Zetsche held what is likely to be his last, and most poignant, session of &#8220;Ask Dr. Z.&#8221; Skip to next paragraph Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, said the decision to sell Chrysler was &#147;emotionally a very tough process for me.&#148; Mr. Zetsche, the chief executive of , became famous last summer as that affable German fellow with a walrus mustache, who answered questions about cars on a Chrysler Web site. Now, the real Dr. Z was fielding questions from 250 senior managers about why DaimlerChrysler had decided to sell Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management, a New York-based private equity firm. He argued that Cerberus, with its financial skills and huge investment in Chrysler, plus a continued minority shareholding by Daimler offered the &#8220;best possible future setup for Chrysler.&#8221; Back at DaimlerChrysler&#8217;s headquarters here, Mr. Zetsche said in an interview on Wednesday that the decision to sell the company, which he led from 2000 to 2005, was &#8220;emotionally a very tough process for me.&#8221; But by last fall, when Chrysler&#8217;s sales deteriorated and the carmaker tumbled into losses, he said it was starting to become clear that there was no longer a case for keeping Daimler and Chrysler together. The American auto market was simply too volatile, and the scope for synergies between the Mercedes division of Daimler and Chrysler, which Mr. Zetsche had made an urgent priority when he took the helm of DaimlerChrysler in January 2006, were proving to be disappointing. Moreover, Chrysler&#8217;s emphasis on large vehicles was ill suited to an era of high gasoline prices, making it vulnerable not only to Japanese imports but to its crosstown rivals, &#8220;There were a number of issues, which obviously expressed the downside risk even more,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I can&#8217;t give you an exact date. It was an ongoing process where you feel how you go, step by step, not always on a rational basis, but you start to move in one direction.&#8221; Mr. Zetsche seemed at peace with the decision, which effectively turns back the clock to 1998 for Daimler. The company will revert to selling Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, giving up its status as an all-in-one carmaker but retaining two profitable specialty businesses. &#8220;In my role,&#8221; he said, &#8220;I have to ultimately make judgments and decisions, based on business rationale.&#8221; With its stock price severely depressed, DaimlerChrysler was at risk of being a target for private equity investors. Mr. Zetsche noted that the disclosure in February that DaimlerChrysler was considering &#8220;all options&#8221; for Chrysler reduced that risk because the stock price soared. The new Daimler, he said, will be a well-capitalized carmaker focused on two of the fastest-growing segments of the market. Mr. Zetsche predicted that Mercedes, which has struggled in recent years, would give BMW a run for its money. &#8220;We are very much coming back,&#8221; he said. Mercedes is on track to earn better than a 7 percent return on sales, Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s goal. It recently rolled out a new version of its small C-class sedan, and says it has booked 80,000 orders. The next milestone for Mercedes will be a redesign of its linchpin E-class sedan in 2009. Mr. Zetsche emphasized that Daimler and Chrysler would continue to have a link beyond merely a 19.9 percent financial stake. &#8220;We have this moral and ethical link, and I personally do,&#8221; he said. Maintaining a stake in Chrysler was important in persuading the president of the , Ron Gettelfinger, to support the sale to Cerberus, according to Mr. Zetsche. On Saturday, the two men met for three and a half hours, joined by Thomas W. LaSorda, Chrysler&#8217;s chief executive. At the meeting in Auburn Hills, Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler&#8217;s managers seemed receptive, despite their questions. &#8220;It was really an atmosphere of a fresh start, of great opportunities going forward,&#8221; he said. &#8220;On a personal basis, we had a lot of hugs and strong emotions.&#8221; Stephen A. Feinberg, the low-profile financier who runs Cerberus, was at the meeting to explain his firm&#8217;s philosophy. &#8220;It was of extreme importance that Steve Feinberg did not remain a mystery man, but was a face to look at and a person to ask questions to,&#8221; Mr. Zetsche said, adding that he &#8220;created a lot of confidence.&#8221; While Daimler will now be known mainly for Mercedes, it still plans to roll out its Smart minicar in the United States in February. Smart recently set up a Web site that allows people to make a $99 down payment to reserve one. Within six weeks, 12,000 people had done so. Mr. Zetsche said Daimler&#8217;s nine years with an American partner had made its in-grown culture more open. &#8220;People hired from the outside were killed in a hurry,&#8221; he said of the premerger company. &#8220;That has changed a lot.&#8221; It also molded Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s management style. &#8220;The five years I spent in Auburn Hills were professionally and personally the most important and the most satisfying years I spent anywhere,&#8221; he said. Chrysler even made him something of a cult figure. After appearing in television commercials, Mr. Zetsche said he was stopped by strangers on the street. Six months ago, he recalled, he was waved through an airport line in New York by an officer who greeted him as Dr. Z. Daimler will soon decide whether to maintain English as the official language of the company &#151; a step it took after acquiring Chrysler. Mr. Zetsche said he strongly favored keeping English, but conceded that for reasons of efficiency, it might make sense to go back to German. One thing that seems destined to end along with Daimler&#8217;s Motown adventure: Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s career as a TV pitchman. &#8220;I&#8217;m much happier with this day job than with my night job,&#8221; he said. Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler Daimler's Chief Confirms Talks To Sell Chrysler Intertwined Chrysler Hard to Break Up Chief Says Chrysler Unit May Be Sold Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Economix: Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Bumped Fliers and No Plan B In India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Not to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/17/business/worldbusiness/17daimler.html?ex=1337054400&en=9d56e7bdc1ac320a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Chrysler Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says 2007 STUTTGART, Germany, May 16 &#151; On Monday evening at Chrysler&#8217;s offices in Auburn Hills, Mich., Dieter Zetsche held what is likely to be his last, and most poignant, session of &#8220;Ask Dr. Z.&#8221; Zetsche, the chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, said the decision to sell Chrysler was &#147;emotionally a very tough process for me.&#148; Mr. Zetsche, the chief executive of , became famous last summer as that affable German fellow with a walrus mustache, who answered questions about cars on a Chrysler Web site. Now, the real Dr. Z was fielding questions from 250 senior managers about why DaimlerChrysler had decided to sell Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management, a New York-based private equity firm. He argued that Cerberus, with its financial skills and huge investment in Chrysler, plus a continued minority shareholding by Daimler offered the &#8220;best possible future setup for Chrysler.&#8221; Back at DaimlerChrysler&#8217;s headquarters here, Mr. Zetsche said in an interview on Wednesday that the decision to sell the company, which he led from 2000 to 2005, was &#8220;emotionally a very tough process for me.&#8221; But by last fall, when Chrysler&#8217;s sales deteriorated and the carmaker tumbled into losses, he said it was starting to become clear that there was no longer a case for keeping Daimler and Chrysler together. The American auto market was simply too volatile, and the scope for synergies between the Mercedes division of Daimler and Chrysler, which Mr. Zetsche had made an urgent priority when he took the helm of DaimlerChrysler in January 2006, were proving to be disappointing. Moreover, Chrysler&#8217;s emphasis on large vehicles was ill suited to an era of high gasoline prices, making it vulnerable not only to Japanese imports but to its crosstown rivals, &#8220;There were a number of issues, which obviously expressed the downside risk even more,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I can&#8217;t give you an exact date. It was an ongoing process where you feel how you go, step by step, not always on a rational basis, but you start to move in one direction.&#8221; Mr. Zetsche seemed at peace with the decision, which effectively turns back the clock to 1998 for Daimler. The company will revert to selling Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, giving up its status as an all-in-one carmaker but retaining two profitable specialty businesses. &#8220;In my role,&#8221; he said, &#8220;I have to ultimately make judgments and decisions, based on business rationale.&#8221; With its stock price severely depressed, DaimlerChrysler was at risk of being a target for private equity investors. Mr. Zetsche noted that the disclosure in February that DaimlerChrysler was considering &#8220;all options&#8221; for Chrysler reduced that risk because the stock price soared. The new Daimler, he said, will be a well-capitalized carmaker focused on two of the fastest-growing segments of the market. Mr. Zetsche predicted that Mercedes, which has struggled in recent years, would give BMW a run for its money. &#8220;We are very much coming back,&#8221; he said. Mercedes is on track to earn better than a 7 percent return on sales, Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s goal. It recently rolled out a new version of its small C-class sedan, and says it has booked 80,000 orders. The next milestone for Mercedes will be a redesign of its linchpin E-class sedan in 2009. Mr. Zetsche emphasized that Daimler and Chrysler would continue to have a link beyond merely a 19.9 percent financial stake. &#8220;We have this moral and ethical link, and I personally do,&#8221; he said. Maintaining a stake in Chrysler was important in persuading the president of the , Ron Gettelfinger, to support the sale to Cerberus, according to Mr. Zetsche. On Saturday, the two men met for three and a half hours, joined by Thomas W. LaSorda, Chrysler&#8217;s chief executive. At the meeting in Auburn Hills, Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler&#8217;s managers seemed receptive, despite their questions. &#8220;It was really an atmosphere of a fresh start, of great opportunities going forward,&#8221; he said. &#8220;On a personal basis, we had a lot of hugs and strong emotions.&#8221; Stephen A. Feinberg, the low-profile financier who runs Cerberus, was at the meeting to explain his firm&#8217;s philosophy. &#8220;It was of extreme importance that Steve Feinberg did not remain a mystery man, but was a face to look at and a person to ask questions to,&#8221; Mr. Zetsche said, adding that he &#8220;created a lot of confidence.&#8221; While Daimler will now be known mainly for Mercedes, it still plans to roll out its Smart minicar in the United States in February. Smart recently set up a Web site that allows people to make a $99 down payment to reserve one. Within six weeks, 12,000 people had done so. Mr. Zetsche said Daimler&#8217;s nine years with an American partner had made its in-grown culture more open. &#8220;People hired from the outside were killed in a hurry,&#8221; he said of the premerger company. &#8220;That has changed a lot.&#8221; It also molded Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s management style. &#8220;The five years I spent in Auburn Hills were professionally and personally the most important and the most satisfying years I spent anywhere,&#8221; he said. Chrysler even made him something of a cult figure. After appearing in television commercials, Mr. Zetsche said he was stopped by strangers on the street. Six months ago, he recalled, he was waved through an airport line in New York by an officer who greeted him as Dr. Z. Daimler will soon decide whether to maintain English as the official language of the company &#151; a step it took after acquiring Chrysler. Mr. Zetsche said he strongly favored keeping English, but conceded that for reasons of efficiency, it might make sense to go back to German. One thing that seems destined to end along with Daimler&#8217;s Motown adventure: Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s career as a TV pitchman. &#8220;I&#8217;m much happier with this day job than with my night job,&#8221; he said. Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler Daimler's Chief Confirms Talks To Sell Chrysler Intertwined Chrysler Hard to Break Up Chief Says Chrysler Unit May Be Sold Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Bumped Fliers and No Plan B Economix: India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/19/business/19auto.html G.M.&#8217;s Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion - Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion Robert Lutz, vice chairman at General Motors, introducing a Chevrolet Volt in January. G.M. hopes to sell the hybrid-electric car by 2010. 2007 ANN ARBOR, Mich., May 18 — Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman at , has long been considered one of Detroit’s ultimate “car guys,” for whom no vehicle could be big enough, powerful enough or fast enough. Skip to next paragraph ‘Wait Wait ... Don’t Tell Me!’ G.M. Fast Lane Blog He is the father of the V-10 Dodge Viper and has championed automobiles like the 1,000-horsepower Cadillac Sixteen, a V-16 concept coupe that Mr. Lutz said would have fulfilled his longstanding goal of designing a high-powered car to match the finest European models. Now Mr. Lutz, known by his “Maximum Bob” nickname around Detroit, says he has a new dream car. Speaking at a taping of “Wait Wait ...Don’t Tell Me!” the quiz program on , Mr. Lutz declared Thursday night that the Chevrolet Volt, the hybrid-electric concept car that G.M. unveiled at this year’s Detroit auto show, may be among the most important vehicles that G.M. has ever developed. “This is now what I’m more excited about than I was about the Dodge Viper,” Mr. Lutz said. “I think this can bring about the revolution and really make us independent of foreign oil and solve all the other problems.” The show airs Saturday nationwide. With the same enthusiasm that he has long used to describe high torque ratings and engine displacements, Mr. Lutz touted the Volt’s mileage, which he estimated will reach 151 miles per gallon, fueled by a combination of electricity and gasoline. His comments drew a huge round of applause from the NPR audience at the Michigan Theater here. The prospect of Mr. Lutz going green represents a sharp reversal. After all, he has often mocked environmental advocates, saying that except for “a few nuts in California,” no one cared about the impact of cars on the environment. In 2003, he described ’s hybrid-electric Prius as a public relations stunt — although he admitted he wished General Motors had a similar model — and declared G.M.’s most important car to be the Chevrolet Corvette. That same year, G.M. showed off the Cadillac Sixteen, a four-door concept sports car commissioned by Mr. Lutz. It sported a 32-valve, 13.6-liter V-16 engine and a steering wheel logo carved out of crystal. G.M. never put that car into production. But it is planning to build a new version of the Chevrolet Camaro, its 1960s muscle car, starting next year. And in February, Mr. Lutz showed off a big rear-wheel drive concept sedan, the Pontiac G8, at the Chicago auto show, and said that Americans still wanted powerful cars. But G.M. is also moving ahead with the Volt, even though it hasn’t yet developed the lithium-ion battery that is needed to power it. Even so, Mr. Lutz has said G.M. hopes to sell it by 2010. “We’re actually going to put it into production,” Mr. Lutz said. “I think it could be one of the most important things we’ve ever developed.” " His apparent conversion is a hit with Dan Becker, head of the . “We take all epiphanies,” Mr. Becker said. But Mr. Becker noted that Mr. Lutz has questioned the existence of global warming. And Mr. Lutz does not appear quite ready to cut back on his own carbon footprint. He still owns two fighter jets — one Czech and one German — flies a helicopter, and has a stable full of sports cars including the second Viper ever produced (the first went to Chrysler’s former chief executive, Lee A. Iacocca). Peter Sagal, host of the NPR show, teased Mr. Lutz on Thursday about his choices for transportation: “You mean what goes on in your garage stays in your garage?” of a Rebound, Even as G.M.'s Asian Profits Fall Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Iwo Jima Flag-Raising Sequence - Framed Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/19/business/19auto.html G.M.&#8217;s Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion Robert Lutz, vice chairman at General Motors, introducing a Chevrolet Volt in January. G.M. hopes to sell the hybrid-electric car by 2010. 2007 ANN ARBOR, Mich., May 18 — Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman at , has long been considered one of Detroit’s ultimate “car guys,” for whom no vehicle could be big enough, powerful enough or fast enough. Wait ... Don’t Tell Me!’ G.M. Fast Lane Blog He is the father of the V-10 Dodge Viper and has championed automobiles like the 1,000-horsepower Cadillac Sixteen, a V-16 concept coupe that Mr. Lutz said would have fulfilled his longstanding goal of designing a high-powered car to match the finest European models. Now Mr. Lutz, known by his “Maximum Bob” nickname around Detroit, says he has a new dream car. Speaking at a taping of “Wait Wait ...Don’t Tell Me!” the quiz program on , Mr. Lutz declared Thursday night that the Chevrolet Volt, the hybrid-electric concept car that G.M. unveiled at this year’s Detroit auto show, may be among the most important vehicles that G.M. has ever developed. “This is now what I’m more excited about than I was about the Dodge Viper,” Mr. Lutz said. “I think this can bring about the revolution and really make us independent of foreign oil and solve all the other problems.” The show airs Saturday nationwide. With the same enthusiasm that he has long used to describe high torque ratings and engine displacements, Mr. Lutz touted the Volt’s mileage, which he estimated will reach 151 miles per gallon, fueled by a combination of electricity and gasoline. His comments drew a huge round of applause from the NPR audience at the Michigan Theater here. The prospect of Mr. Lutz going green represents a sharp reversal. After all, he has often mocked environmental advocates, saying that except for “a few nuts in California,” no one cared about the impact of cars on the environment. In 2003, he described ’s hybrid-electric Prius as a public relations stunt — although he admitted he wished General Motors had a similar model — and declared G.M.’s most important car to be the Chevrolet Corvette. That same year, G.M. showed off the Cadillac Sixteen, a four-door concept sports car commissioned by Mr. Lutz. It sported a 32-valve, 13.6-liter V-16 engine and a steering wheel logo carved out of crystal. G.M. never put that car into production. But it is planning to build a new version of the Chevrolet Camaro, its 1960s muscle car, starting next year. And in February, Mr. Lutz showed off a big rear-wheel drive concept sedan, the Pontiac G8, at the Chicago auto show, and said that Americans still wanted powerful cars. But G.M. is also moving ahead with the Volt, even though it hasn’t yet developed the lithium-ion battery that is needed to power it. Even so, Mr. Lutz has said G.M. hopes to sell it by 2010. “We’re actually going to put it into production,” Mr. Lutz said. “I think it could be one of the most important things we’ve ever developed.” " His apparent conversion is a hit with Dan Becker, head of the . “We take all epiphanies,” Mr. Becker said. But Mr. Becker noted that Mr. Lutz has questioned the existence of global warming. And Mr. Lutz does not appear quite ready to cut back on his own carbon footprint. He still owns two fighter jets — one Czech and one German — flies a helicopter, and has a stable full of sports cars including the second Viper ever produced (the first went to Chrysler’s former chief executive, Lee A. Iacocca). Peter Sagal, host of the NPR show, teased Mr. Lutz on Thursday about his choices for transportation: “You mean what goes on in your garage stays in your garage?” of a Rebound, Even as G.M.'s Asian Profits Fall Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp &#x00bb; a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/20PHONE.html How&#8217;s My Driving? Dial My License Plate - My Driving? Dial My License Plate If you register with SameLane, you can connect to other motorists displaying its bumper sticker. 2007 IN “American Graffiti,” the character played by Richard Dreyfuss spends much of the movie pursuing a mysterious woman played by Suzanne Somers, who drives a white Ford Thunderbird. If only they had SameLane, a service that allows drivers to call strangers on the road by dialing their license plate numbers into cellphones. A CB radio for this century, SameLane is aimed at commuters stuck in traffic, long-haul drivers fighting fatigue and good Samaritans trying to help people with broken taillights and such. To use the service, which goes live on Monday, drivers register their cellphone and license plate numbers with SameLane, which sends them bumper stickers identifying the drivers as part of the SameLane network. After spotting a member, drivers dial a company number, punch in the license plate number of the car they want to reach and wait for SameLane’s computers to connect the call. Registration and the first three calls of up to three minutes each are free. Callers then pay $1.99 a minute using a debit account that must be set up on SameLane’s site, . Of course, if drivers like each other, they can exchange cellphone numbers and talk without SameLane. Vince Waterson, part owner of Delta Meridian of Dallas, which is offering the service, said he wanted to bring to driving the feel of waiting at Starbucks, where customers have casual conversations and even strike up friendships. “You have this wall of steel and glass between you and the guy in the next lane,” he said. “Sometimes people see someone with a bumper sticker of things they enjoy, and sometimes they just want to talk to someone to keep from falling asleep.” Mr. Waterson, who has worked in the telecommunications industry for about 40 years, has tried to address some of his service’s biggest potential drawbacks. Callers do not see each other’s real cellphone numbers, which preserves some of their anonymity. They can also block calls to prevent pests from turning into stalkers. Mr. Waterson said that SameLane would not promote dangerous driving. The first set of advertisements for the service (to be broadcast on talk radio stations in and around Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington) will encourage drivers to make calls only when their vehicles are not in motion. Those admonishments are likely to fall on deaf ears given how much time drivers already spend chatting on their phones, analysts said. Indeed, the service may lead people to reach for their cellphones instead of making obscene gestures at reckless drivers. “There’s some dangerous potential for incidents of road rage with this,” said David Alexander, an analyst in the automotive systems group at ABI Research of Oyster Bay, N.Y. “It’s being publicized as a social service, but what about the guy that cuts in front of you?” SameLane is not the first service to try to connect drivers. lets drivers post personal profiles online that others who spot their bumper stickers can view later. A variety of satellite-based services helps companies and their drivers communicate with each other. The CB radio created communities of drivers decades ago. But those radios broadcast one person to many people. By contrast, SameLane is a one-to-one service that will need thousands of customers if drivers are to have a decent chance to meet others on the road, said Carmi Levy, an analyst at Info-Tech Research Group of London, Ontario. Charging drivers $1.99 a minute will not encourage people to sign up, he added. Still, online services like MySpace and Facebook have defied skeptics and are very popular with young people, so one cannot fault Mr. Waterson for trying to replicate their success in the automotive industry, said Josh Bernoff, an analyst who tracks social networks for Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass. “If a bunch of people are all going in the same direction, there has to be something you can do with them,” he said. “Targeting people when they are bored out of their skull is a longstanding business practice in America.” Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 We Ask So Much Of Our Batteries; Need for Power Runs Into Basic Hurdles of Science CIRCUITS; A Bluetooth Plug-and-Chat Device Keeps Your Hands on the Wheel NEWS WATCH: ACCESSORIES; Hand-Held Devices Come Into View With a Magnifying Glass Automobile Registration and License Plate Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Derek Jeter Autographed Baseball Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/20PHONE.html How&#8217;s My Driving? Dial My License Plate My Driving? Dial My License Plate If you register with SameLane, you can connect to other motorists displaying its bumper sticker. 2007 IN “American Graffiti,” the character played by Richard Dreyfuss spends much of the movie pursuing a mysterious woman played by Suzanne Somers, who drives a white Ford Thunderbird. If only they had SameLane, a service that allows drivers to call strangers on the road by dialing their license plate numbers into cellphones. A CB radio for this century, SameLane is aimed at commuters stuck in traffic, long-haul drivers fighting fatigue and good Samaritans trying to help people with broken taillights and such. To use the service, which goes live on Monday, drivers register their cellphone and license plate numbers with SameLane, which sends them bumper stickers identifying the drivers as part of the SameLane network. After spotting a member, drivers dial a company number, punch in the license plate number of the car they want to reach and wait for SameLane’s computers to connect the call. Registration and the first three calls of up to three minutes each are free. Callers then pay $1.99 a minute using a debit account that must be set up on SameLane’s site, . Of course, if drivers like each other, they can exchange cellphone numbers and talk without SameLane. Vince Waterson, part owner of Delta Meridian of Dallas, which is offering the service, said he wanted to bring to driving the feel of waiting at Starbucks, where customers have casual conversations and even strike up friendships. “You have this wall of steel and glass between you and the guy in the next lane,” he said. “Sometimes people see someone with a bumper sticker of things they enjoy, and sometimes they just want to talk to someone to keep from falling asleep.” Mr. Waterson, who has worked in the telecommunications industry for about 40 years, has tried to address some of his service’s biggest potential drawbacks. Callers do not see each other’s real cellphone numbers, which preserves some of their anonymity. They can also block calls to prevent pests from turning into stalkers. Mr. Waterson said that SameLane would not promote dangerous driving. The first set of advertisements for the service (to be broadcast on talk radio stations in and around Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington) will encourage drivers to make calls only when their vehicles are not in motion. Those admonishments are likely to fall on deaf ears given how much time drivers already spend chatting on their phones, analysts said. Indeed, the service may lead people to reach for their cellphones instead of making obscene gestures at reckless drivers. “There’s some dangerous potential for incidents of road rage with this,” said David Alexander, an analyst in the automotive systems group at ABI Research of Oyster Bay, N.Y. “It’s being publicized as a social service, but what about the guy that cuts in front of you?” SameLane is not the first service to try to connect drivers. lets drivers post personal profiles online that others who spot their bumper stickers can view later. A variety of satellite-based services helps companies and their drivers communicate with each other. The CB radio created communities of drivers decades ago. But those radios broadcast one person to many people. By contrast, SameLane is a one-to-one service that will need thousands of customers if drivers are to have a decent chance to meet others on the road, said Carmi Levy, an analyst at Info-Tech Research Group of London, Ontario. Charging drivers $1.99 a minute will not encourage people to sign up, he added. Still, online services like MySpace and Facebook have defied skeptics and are very popular with young people, so one cannot fault Mr. Waterson for trying to replicate their success in the automotive industry, said Josh Bernoff, an analyst who tracks social networks for Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass. “If a bunch of people are all going in the same direction, there has to be something you can do with them,” he said. “Targeting people when they are bored out of their skull is a longstanding business practice in America.” Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 We Ask So Much Of Our Batteries; Need for Power Runs Into Basic Hurdles of Science CIRCUITS; A Bluetooth Plug-and-Chat Device Keeps Your Hands on the Wheel NEWS WATCH: ACCESSORIES; Hand-Held Devices Come Into View With a Magnifying Glass Automobile Registration and License Plate Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car Rivera Autographed Page
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/20VOICE.html?ex=1337313600&en=c5cc280984300d27&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Voice Recognition Closes In on HAL - Recognition Closes In on HAL JOHN R. QUAIN Published: May 20, 2007 NOT long after computers settled into cars to impose their electronic authority on engines, transmissions and safety systems, microprocessors began speaking up, nagging passengers to buckle the seat belts and issuing alerts about doors that were ajar. It wasn’t long before revelation struck: what we really wanted was not cars that talked, but listened. Decades later, voice recognition systems are a staple of the luxury class, an alternative to buttons, joysticks and touch-screens that control onboard entertainment systems and satellite navigation devices. Voice recognition is, in theory at least, a relief from the human-machine interfaces that most drivers can only rate as frustrating. This HAL 9000 fantasy is behind the development of voice recognition programs that enable people to converse with (or at least have their spoken commands understood by) machines. Already, desktop software like Dragon NaturallySpeaking from Nuance Communications and ViaVoice from I.B.M. have made it possible for a PC to take dictation. But so far automobiles have been limited to basic commands. In part, speech recognition in cars has been held back by the limited amount of onboard computer memory and the processing demands of the software. Large vocabularies need to be stored on hard disk drives and processors have to work with complex language models — the combination of linguistics and statistics — to interpret what is being said. Today, navigation systems in luxury cars like the Acura MDX can respond to perfunctory commands, like “Find the nearest gas station.” “Voice destination entry, or V.D.E., has been a big thing these days,” John Watts, manager for product planning at Honda’s Acura division, said. Indeed, Acura’s navigation system, with voice recognition derived from I.B.M.’s ViaVoice software, can even perform concierge-in-a-car tricks like finding an address based on a phone number dictated by the driver. While such systems do not need to be trained like the dictation programs used on desktop PCs, drivers often find they have to train themselves to use the right words in the right context. Asking for “Traffic, please” at the wrong time can flummox most systems. Did you want music from the ’70s supergroup or information about gridlock on your route? As costs have come down and the complexity of onboard computers has ramped up, the computing limitations are largely fading away, Roberto Sicconi, director for speech technology integration at I.B.M. Research in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., said. The voice recognition software I.B.M. has developed for cars, for example, “is now as powerful or more powerful than ViaVoice was on a desktop computer” just six years ago, he said. So why is a car not able to tell the difference between a request for a tune by Steve Winwood’s former band and the need to avoid congestion on Interstate 95? The main problem in seamlessly switching between systems — entertainment and navigation, for instance — using conversational speech has been getting the car to understand the context of what the driver is saying, according to Tom Freeman, co-founder of VoiceBox Technologies of Bellevue, Wash. VoiceBox has been working on what it calls a conversational speech engine for cars that should be ready in the next year or so, he said. “Having consumers memorize 1,000 different commands for the right context can be distracting, even deadly” if there is confusion when you are driving 60 miles an hour, he said. So VoiceBox developed specialized software programs that overlay existing speech recognition engines like those from I.B.M. and Nuance. These digital agents are designed specifically to interpret the driver’s intention and determine the correct context for a given request. In a recent demonstration — driving around Manhattan with a prototype portable VoiceBox system — the advantage of such sophisticated software was immediately apparent. Simply saying, “I’d like to listen to jazz and blues,” turned on the XM satellite radio and tuned in the correct station while we hunted for a parking spot. Asking the system “Who’s playing?” brought a response that After replying to a series of questions about current basketball scores, in response to, “What about Boston?” the VoiceBox computer also correctly surmised that we wanted to know about the Celtics and not the rock band or traffic in the city. And quickly changing topics from “What’s the traffic like on I-95?” to “Turn it down!” did not confuse the system. for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 Basics; Getting Around, Made Easier AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Are You Ready to Have A Chat With Your Car? Behind the wheel/2004 Acura TL; Those German Lessons Are Paying Off Computers and the Internet Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/20VOICE.html?ex=1337313600&en=c5cc280984300d27&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Voice Recognition Closes In on HAL Recognition Closes In on HAL JOHN R. QUAIN Published: May 20, 2007 NOT long after computers settled into cars to impose their electronic authority on engines, transmissions and safety systems, microprocessors began speaking up, nagging passengers to buckle the seat belts and issuing alerts about doors that were ajar. It wasn’t long before revelation struck: what we really wanted was not cars that talked, but listened. Decades later, voice recognition systems are a staple of the luxury class, an alternative to buttons, joysticks and touch-screens that control onboard entertainment systems and satellite navigation devices. Voice recognition is, in theory at least, a relief from the human-machine interfaces that most drivers can only rate as frustrating. This HAL 9000 fantasy is behind the development of voice recognition programs that enable people to converse with (or at least have their spoken commands understood by) machines. Already, desktop software like Dragon NaturallySpeaking from Nuance Communications and ViaVoice from I.B.M. have made it possible for a PC to take dictation. But so far automobiles have been limited to basic commands. In part, speech recognition in cars has been held back by the limited amount of onboard computer memory and the processing demands of the software. Large vocabularies need to be stored on hard disk drives and processors have to work with complex language models — the combination of linguistics and statistics — to interpret what is being said. Today, navigation systems in luxury cars like the Acura MDX can respond to perfunctory commands, like “Find the nearest gas station.” “Voice destination entry, or V.D.E., has been a big thing these days,” John Watts, manager for product planning at Honda’s Acura division, said. Indeed, Acura’s navigation system, with voice recognition derived from I.B.M.’s ViaVoice software, can even perform concierge-in-a-car tricks like finding an address based on a phone number dictated by the driver. While such systems do not need to be trained like the dictation programs used on desktop PCs, drivers often find they have to train themselves to use the right words in the right context. Asking for “Traffic, please” at the wrong time can flummox most systems. Did you want music from the ’70s supergroup or information about gridlock on your route? As costs have come down and the complexity of onboard computers has ramped up, the computing limitations are largely fading away, Roberto Sicconi, director for speech technology integration at I.B.M. Research in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., said. The voice recognition software I.B.M. has developed for cars, for example, “is now as powerful or more powerful than ViaVoice was on a desktop computer” just six years ago, he said. So why is a car not able to tell the difference between a request for a tune by Steve Winwood’s former band and the need to avoid congestion on Interstate 95? The main problem in seamlessly switching between systems — entertainment and navigation, for instance — using conversational speech has been getting the car to understand the context of what the driver is saying, according to Tom Freeman, co-founder of VoiceBox Technologies of Bellevue, Wash. VoiceBox has been working on what it calls a conversational speech engine for cars that should be ready in the next year or so, he said. “Having consumers memorize 1,000 different commands for the right context can be distracting, even deadly” if there is confusion when you are driving 60 miles an hour, he said. So VoiceBox developed specialized software programs that overlay existing speech recognition engines like those from I.B.M. and Nuance. These digital agents are designed specifically to interpret the driver’s intention and determine the correct context for a given request. In a recent demonstration — driving around Manhattan with a prototype portable VoiceBox system — the advantage of such sophisticated software was immediately apparent. Simply saying, “I’d like to listen to jazz and blues,” turned on the XM satellite radio and tuned in the correct station while we hunted for a parking spot. Asking the system “Who’s playing?” brought a response that After replying to a series of questions about current basketball scores, in response to, “What about Boston?” the VoiceBox computer also correctly surmised that we wanted to know about the Celtics and not the rock band or traffic in the city. And quickly changing topics from “What’s the traffic like on I-95?” to “Turn it down!” did not confuse the system. have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 Basics; Getting Around, Made Easier AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Are You Ready to Have A Chat With Your Car? Behind the wheel/2004 Acura TL; Those German Lessons Are Paying Off Computers and the Internet Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/autoreviews/20AUTO.html?ex=1337313600&en=0b661526774aeb9e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - 2008 Audi R8 - Test Drive - the Wheel | 2008 Audi R8 Growling at the Exotics’ Door Powered by a 420-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8, the R8 starts at $110,000. 2007 Skip to next paragraph Some Racy Alternatives to the Audi R8 For all the racy overtones, the R8 is still a six-figure luxury car. THE Audi R8 always wakes up on the wrong side of bed. Spin the starter motor and the 420-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8 directly behind your head greets the day with a ragged, grumpy cacophony of angry internal combustion. Fire it up inside a parking garage, where the din reverberates inside the R8&#8217;s snug cabin, and it&#8217;s easy to imagine you&#8217;re heading for the starting grid at Le Mans. And that&#8217;s entirely the point of this automobile. The 2008 R8 joins a small, elite group of production cars that manage to convey a convincing racecar vibe. Like a race machine, the R8 has a dry-sump lubrication system that sprays the bottom end of the motor with jets of oil to keep it from starving under high cornering loads. (Two other racecars for the street, the Porsche GT3 and Chevrolet Corvette Z06, also employ this approach.) The R8&#8217;s midengine design echoes that of Audi&#8217;s dominant R8 racecar, which racked up 62 wins in 79 starts. In fact, the R8 production car was styled by the same team that created the racer. I didn&#8217;t get to drive the R8 on a track, but based on its genes it should take to a road course the way and Steffi Graf&#8217;s children should shine on a tennis court. For all the racy overtones, however, this is still a six-figure luxury car, and an Audi at that. Thus the R8&#8217;s $110,000 base price can rocket skyward rather quickly once you begin adding creature comforts. For instance, you&#8217;ll want the $3,500 Convenience Package, the main feature of which is a rearview backup camera, because backing your new R8 into things is definitely inconvenient. My test car also had enhanced leather ($5,500), a navigation system ($2,000), a 465-watt Bang &#38; Olufsen sound system ($1,800), metallic paint ($650) and carbon fiber sideblades ($2,000). Budget another $9,000 if you go for the R-Tronic sequential manual transmission. (Sadly, a single-clutch Magneti Marelli and not Audi&#8217;s stellar Direct Shift Gearbox, which can&#8217;t handle so much power.) And that&#8217;s how you build a $134,000 Audi two-seater. Of course, at this point you&#8217;re probably saying to yourself, &#8220;An Audi priced in Maserati-land, fine, but what the heck is a sideblade?&#8221;&#8217; Good question. Adorning each flank of the R8, just behind the doors, is a vertical panel meant to visually shorten what is actually quite a long car &#151; the 104.3-inch wheelbase is about an inch longer than that of a Ford Escape S.U.V. (One benefit of that long wheelbase: the R8 can take two golf bags behind the seats.) It took me a while to make up my mind on the sideblades, which can be ordered in colors that contrast with the rest of the bodywork. At first I disliked them, then I wondered if I was being closed-minded toward styling innovation, and finally I concluded that the things are hideous and began referring to them as sideburns. Fortunately, you can specify body-color sideburns, thus minimizing their impact on what is otherwise a striking vehicle. On that front, this is something of a car-review clich&#233;, so forgive me for dragging it out here, but the R8 is a car that you really need to see in person. Photos do not do it justice. This car exudes drama and menace, particularly when it&#8217;s in motion. Driving through Beverly Hills with the windows down, I heard the driver of a passing Mercedes utter an involuntary &#8220;Whoooaahhh!&#8221; that rushed past in the slipstream. I realize that flashy new cars tend to draw an inordinate amount of attention in the first few months of their life, but Beverly Hills is about as jaded an environment as you find, and the R8 was the subject of more cellphone photos than a Lindsay Lohan-Paris Hilton bar brawl. Moreover, Audi&#8217;s in-house high-performance company, the confusingly named quattro GmbH, will build only 20 R8s a day at its dedicated plant, so this car will always remain an exclusive proposition. Heading out of Beverly Hills and into the canyons outside Los Angeles, the R8 came into its element. Audi says a run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. takes 4.4 seconds, but the R8 is less about straight-line speed than about cohesive balance, the ability to tackle any road with instant confidence. The car employs Audi&#8217;s quattro all-wheel-drive system, but the torque split is far more rear-biased than on any other Audi. As with its cousin, the Lamborghini Gallardo, the R8 strives to mimic the feel of a rear-drive car, so only 10 to 35 percent of the V-8&#8217;s torque is ever sent forward. At one particularly enthusiastic first-gear launch, I was surprised to find the enormous 295/30/19 rear tires spinning briefly before all four wheels dug in and catapulted the car forward. Burnouts are something you don&#8217;t expect from an all-wheel-drive Audi, even an RS 4. As I said, I didn&#8217;t get to drive the R8 on a track, and exploring this car&#8217;s limits on a public road would constitute sociopathic behavior on par with juggling chainsaws at a baby shower. Service Bulletins Help Plug the Leaks Short History, Long View; A Surging Audi Plans to Set the Pace in Luxury Cars BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Audi RS 4; Mighty Morphin' A4 Power Ranger BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Audi Q7; So Late to the S.U.V. Party, But So Smartly Dressed Audi Division of Volkswagen AG Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/autoreviews/20AUTO.html?ex=1337313600&en=0b661526774aeb9e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - 2008 Audi R8 - Test Drive the Wheel | 2008 Audi R8 Growling at the Exotics’ Door Powered by a 420-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8, the R8 starts at $110,000. 2007 Racy Alternatives to the Audi R8 For all the racy overtones, the R8 is still a six-figure luxury car. THE Audi R8 always wakes up on the wrong side of bed. Spin the starter motor and the 420-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8 directly behind your head greets the day with a ragged, grumpy cacophony of angry internal combustion. Fire it up inside a parking garage, where the din reverberates inside the R8&#8217;s snug cabin, and it&#8217;s easy to imagine you&#8217;re heading for the starting grid at Le Mans. And that&#8217;s entirely the point of this automobile. The 2008 R8 joins a small, elite group of production cars that manage to convey a convincing racecar vibe. Like a race machine, the R8 has a dry-sump lubrication system that sprays the bottom end of the motor with jets of oil to keep it from starving under high cornering loads. (Two other racecars for the street, the Porsche GT3 and Chevrolet Corvette Z06, also employ this approach.) The R8&#8217;s midengine design echoes that of Audi&#8217;s dominant R8 racecar, which racked up 62 wins in 79 starts. In fact, the R8 production car was styled by the same team that created the racer. I didn&#8217;t get to drive the R8 on a track, but based on its genes it should take to a road course the way and Steffi Graf&#8217;s children should shine on a tennis court. For all the racy overtones, however, this is still a six-figure luxury car, and an Audi at that. Thus the R8&#8217;s $110,000 base price can rocket skyward rather quickly once you begin adding creature comforts. For instance, you&#8217;ll want the $3,500 Convenience Package, the main feature of which is a rearview backup camera, because backing your new R8 into things is definitely inconvenient. My test car also had enhanced leather ($5,500), a navigation system ($2,000), a 465-watt Bang &#38; Olufsen sound system ($1,800), metallic paint ($650) and carbon fiber sideblades ($2,000). Budget another $9,000 if you go for the R-Tronic sequential manual transmission. (Sadly, a single-clutch Magneti Marelli and not Audi&#8217;s stellar Direct Shift Gearbox, which can&#8217;t handle so much power.) And that&#8217;s how you build a $134,000 Audi two-seater. Of course, at this point you&#8217;re probably saying to yourself, &#8220;An Audi priced in Maserati-land, fine, but what the heck is a sideblade?&#8221;&#8217; Good question. Adorning each flank of the R8, just behind the doors, is a vertical panel meant to visually shorten what is actually quite a long car &#151; the 104.3-inch wheelbase is about an inch longer than that of a Ford Escape S.U.V. (One benefit of that long wheelbase: the R8 can take two golf bags behind the seats.) It took me a while to make up my mind on the sideblades, which can be ordered in colors that contrast with the rest of the bodywork. At first I disliked them, then I wondered if I was being closed-minded toward styling innovation, and finally I concluded that the things are hideous and began referring to them as sideburns. Fortunately, you can specify body-color sideburns, thus minimizing their impact on what is otherwise a striking vehicle. On that front, this is something of a car-review clich&#233;, so forgive me for dragging it out here, but the R8 is a car that you really need to see in person. Photos do not do it justice. This car exudes drama and menace, particularly when it&#8217;s in motion. Driving through Beverly Hills with the windows down, I heard the driver of a passing Mercedes utter an involuntary &#8220;Whoooaahhh!&#8221; that rushed past in the slipstream. I realize that flashy new cars tend to draw an inordinate amount of attention in the first few months of their life, but Beverly Hills is about as jaded an environment as you find, and the R8 was the subject of more cellphone photos than a Lindsay Lohan-Paris Hilton bar brawl. Moreover, Audi&#8217;s in-house high-performance company, the confusingly named quattro GmbH, will build only 20 R8s a day at its dedicated plant, so this car will always remain an exclusive proposition. Heading out of Beverly Hills and into the canyons outside Los Angeles, the R8 came into its element. Audi says a run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. takes 4.4 seconds, but the R8 is less about straight-line speed than about cohesive balance, the ability to tackle any road with instant confidence. The car employs Audi&#8217;s quattro all-wheel-drive system, but the torque split is far more rear-biased than on any other Audi. As with its cousin, the Lamborghini Gallardo, the R8 strives to mimic the feel of a rear-drive car, so only 10 to 35 percent of the V-8&#8217;s torque is ever sent forward. At one particularly enthusiastic first-gear launch, I was surprised to find the enormous 295/30/19 rear tires spinning briefly before all four wheels dug in and catapulted the car forward. Burnouts are something you don&#8217;t expect from an all-wheel-drive Audi, even an RS 4. As I said, I didn&#8217;t get to drive the R8 on a track, and exploring this car&#8217;s limits on a public road would constitute sociopathic behavior on par with juggling chainsaws at a baby shower. Service Bulletins Help Plug the Leaks Short History, Long View; A Surging Audi Plans to Set the Pace in Luxury Cars BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Audi RS 4; Mighty Morphin' A4 Power Ranger BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Audi Q7; So Late to the S.U.V. Party, But So Smartly Dressed Audi Division of Volkswagen AG Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/collectibles/20FIFTY.html?ex=1337313600&en=5bcefb11d0eb2acd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Collecting- Cars - 1957 Chevrolet - Auto Design - Finned and Fabulous Photograph from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes A 1957 Plymouth Fury, hastily redesigned to leap ahead of its rivals. 2007 Each age is a dream that is dying, or one that is coming to birth,” the poet Arthur O’Shaughnessy wrote. The year 1957 was just such a time. Skip to next paragraph New Models of 1957 Humphrey Bogart, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Joseph P. McCarthy, Eliot Ness and Louis B. Mayer died that year. Significant 1957 births included Donny Osmond, , Scott Adams, Bill Ford and . The future seemed limitless for the United States. Postwar prosperity seemed as though it could go on forever, and Detroit automakers introduced a lineup of new models that seemed as invincible as America. “I think 1957 was a high-water mark for Ford design; Chrysler as well,” said Greg Wallace, manager of General Motors’ Heritage Center in Sterling Heights, Mich. The enduring popularity, not to mention collectibility, of Chevrolet’s 1957 cars “speaks for itself,” he said, adding, “The ’57 Chevy was quite simply the best-looking car of the entire postwar era.” It was a Golden Era, but a fleeting one. It would end before the year was out. Fifty years ago, things were very different for the now-beleaguered Ford Motor Company. Ford’s 1957 lineup was all new for the first time in five years. The 21 models included a restyled Thunderbird sports car, a new generation of F-100 pickups, the car-based Ranchero pickup and the Fairlane 500 Skyliner — the first American convertible with a retractable hardtop. Sales were way up — so much that Ford outsold Chevrolet for the first time since 1935. Together, Ford and Chevrolet accounted for fully half of American car production. The public viewed the Chevys and their General Motors siblings as somewhat dowdy compared with competing 1957 cars. Critics derided the G.M. designs as passé because they were essentially makeovers of the 1955-56 models, with high rooflines, voluptuous fenders, short wheelbases and stubby overall lengths — the shoebox look favored by G.M.’s styling czar, Harley J. Earl. The future had already arrived at Chrysler. “Suddenly it’s 1960!” declared ads for Plymouth, which displaced Buick as America’s third-best-selling line of cars. New models advertised in Chrysler’s Forward Look campaign that were designed by Virgil Exner, the automaker’s chief designer, were trumpeted as “three years ahead of their time.” They essentially were. Chrysler’s president, Tex Colbert, was smarting from poor sales of the company’s 1956 lineup when he came across the futuristic advance designs for 1959 and ’60 models that Exner was working on. Eager for a fresh start, Colbert reportedly told Exner, “Let’s build those” for 1957. The ’57 models that had been in the works were scrapped. The 1957 Plymouth, Dodge, De Soto and Chrysler models trumped everything else on the market. For starters, they were five inches lower than the previous year’s models. They were also wider. Advertising claims (“longer, lower, wider”) notwithstanding, they weren’t really longer than the ’56s, but the sleek models looked as if they were. Credit the fins. Exner’s ’57 designs featured massive steel wings that seemed ready to propel these two-ton creations into the stratosphere. But of greater importance were landmark mechanical innovations like torsion-bar front suspensions, highly reliable three-speed Torqueflite automatic transmissions and Hemi V-8 engines that were power-rich yet fairly economical. “But the real feature of Chrysler’s ’57 cars was that these cars embodied the future, an optimistic, Eisenhower-prosperity future where people wanted to go, and go quickly,” Jeffrey I. Godshall, a Chrysler designer, author and automotive historian, wrote in an e-mail message. “The Forward Look cars indeed looked forward to a futuristic Jetsons’ world of high technology and increased leisure time. The perfect world Americans felt entitled to.” And what was speeding them to that idyllic Tomorrowland? Vehicles like the Chrysler 300C, with its 375-horsepower, 392-cubic-inch Hemi, the industry’s most powerful engine at the time. (Horsepower was calculated more liberally back then.) By comparison, Ford’s 312-cubic-inch V-8 made only 245 horsepower, although an optional supercharged version produced 300. The small-block Chevrolet V-8 had its displacement increased to 283 cubic inches, but base horsepower was just 185. However, for the first time on an American production car, fuel injection was offered. That helped to raise horsepower to 283 — the first time an American manufacturer had been able to achieve one horsepower for each cubic inch of displacement, the company said. But the fuel injection system was touchy, and dealers didn’t know how to work on it. Many dealers replaced the system with a carburetor. The supercharged Ford 312 was gone after just one year. the Lamborghini. He&#8217;d Rather Drive a V-8. Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale COLLECTING; Authentic, or Expert Fake? Due Diligence May Tell COLLECTING; A Dream Weaver Threads Together the Best of 3 Classic Chevys Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends Shelby Cobra Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/collectibles/20FIFTY.html?ex=1337313600&en=5bcefb11d0eb2acd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Collecting- Cars - 1957 Chevrolet - Auto Design Finned and Fabulous Photograph from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes A 1957 Plymouth Fury, hastily redesigned to leap ahead of its rivals. 2007 Each age is a dream that is dying, or one that is coming to birth,” the poet Arthur O’Shaughnessy wrote. The year 1957 was just such a time. Models of 1957 Humphrey Bogart, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Joseph P. McCarthy, Eliot Ness and Louis B. Mayer died that year. Significant 1957 births included Donny Osmond, , Scott Adams, Bill Ford and . The future seemed limitless for the United States. Postwar prosperity seemed as though it could go on forever, and Detroit automakers introduced a lineup of new models that seemed as invincible as America. “I think 1957 was a high-water mark for Ford design; Chrysler as well,” said Greg Wallace, manager of General Motors’ Heritage Center in Sterling Heights, Mich. The enduring popularity, not to mention collectibility, of Chevrolet’s 1957 cars “speaks for itself,” he said, adding, “The ’57 Chevy was quite simply the best-looking car of the entire postwar era.” It was a Golden Era, but a fleeting one. It would end before the year was out. Fifty years ago, things were very different for the now-beleaguered Ford Motor Company. Ford’s 1957 lineup was all new for the first time in five years. The 21 models included a restyled Thunderbird sports car, a new generation of F-100 pickups, the car-based Ranchero pickup and the Fairlane 500 Skyliner — the first American convertible with a retractable hardtop. Sales were way up — so much that Ford outsold Chevrolet for the first time since 1935. Together, Ford and Chevrolet accounted for fully half of American car production. The public viewed the Chevys and their General Motors siblings as somewhat dowdy compared with competing 1957 cars. Critics derided the G.M. designs as passé because they were essentially makeovers of the 1955-56 models, with high rooflines, voluptuous fenders, short wheelbases and stubby overall lengths — the shoebox look favored by G.M.’s styling czar, Harley J. Earl. The future had already arrived at Chrysler. “Suddenly it’s 1960!” declared ads for Plymouth, which displaced Buick as America’s third-best-selling line of cars. New models advertised in Chrysler’s Forward Look campaign that were designed by Virgil Exner, the automaker’s chief designer, were trumpeted as “three years ahead of their time.” They essentially were. Chrysler’s president, Tex Colbert, was smarting from poor sales of the company’s 1956 lineup when he came across the futuristic advance designs for 1959 and ’60 models that Exner was working on. Eager for a fresh start, Colbert reportedly told Exner, “Let’s build those” for 1957. The ’57 models that had been in the works were scrapped. The 1957 Plymouth, Dodge, De Soto and Chrysler models trumped everything else on the market. For starters, they were five inches lower than the previous year’s models. They were also wider. Advertising claims (“longer, lower, wider”) notwithstanding, they weren’t really longer than the ’56s, but the sleek models looked as if they were. Credit the fins. Exner’s ’57 designs featured massive steel wings that seemed ready to propel these two-ton creations into the stratosphere. But of greater importance were landmark mechanical innovations like torsion-bar front suspensions, highly reliable three-speed Torqueflite automatic transmissions and Hemi V-8 engines that were power-rich yet fairly economical. “But the real feature of Chrysler’s ’57 cars was that these cars embodied the future, an optimistic, Eisenhower-prosperity future where people wanted to go, and go quickly,” Jeffrey I. Godshall, a Chrysler designer, author and automotive historian, wrote in an e-mail message. “The Forward Look cars indeed looked forward to a futuristic Jetsons’ world of high technology and increased leisure time. The perfect world Americans felt entitled to.” And what was speeding them to that idyllic Tomorrowland? Vehicles like the Chrysler 300C, with its 375-horsepower, 392-cubic-inch Hemi, the industry’s most powerful engine at the time. (Horsepower was calculated more liberally back then.) By comparison, Ford’s 312-cubic-inch V-8 made only 245 horsepower, although an optional supercharged version produced 300. The small-block Chevrolet V-8 had its displacement increased to 283 cubic inches, but base horsepower was just 185. However, for the first time on an American production car, fuel injection was offered. That helped to raise horsepower to 283 — the first time an American manufacturer had been able to achieve one horsepower for each cubic inch of displacement, the company said. But the fuel injection system was touchy, and dealers didn’t know how to work on it. Many dealers replaced the system with a carburetor. The supercharged Ford 312 was gone after just one year. the Lamborghini. He&#8217;d Rather Drive a V-8. Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale COLLECTING; Authentic, or Expert Fake? Due Diligence May Tell COLLECTING; A Dream Weaver Threads Together the Best of 3 Classic Chevys Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1961-67 Jaguar E-type Series I Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/23/nyregion/23taxi.html?ex=1337572800&en=d8475b3afe294e39&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Mayor Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet - Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet Left, Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News; right, Chris Hondros/Getty Images A Ford Escape Hybrid. 2007 The spacious but gas-guzzling , long the emblematic vehicle of the city&#8217;s yellow cab fleet, would be replaced by cleaner, more fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles under a five-year plan proposed by Mayor Skip to next paragraph More on The Empire Zone Blog » The move, which requires approval by the city&#8217;s Taxi and Limousine Commission , is part of the mayor&#8217;s ambitious environmental agenda for the city, PlaNYC, which calls for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2030. &#8220;There&#8217;s an awful lot of taxicabs on the streets of New York City obviously, so it makes a real big difference,&#8221; Mayor Bloomberg said on NBC&#8217;s &#8220;Today&#8221; show yesterday. &#8220;These cars just sit there in traffic sometimes, belching fumes. This does a lot less; it&#8217;s a lot better for all of us.&#8221; Replacing the city&#8217;s 13,000 yellow cabs, more than 90 percent of which are Crown Victorias, with hybrid vehicles would have the same impact on air quality as removing 32,000 privately owned vehicles from the road, the mayor said. Hybrids, which run on a combination of gasoline and electricity, emit less exhaust and are far more fuel-efficient; a hybrid , for instance, is rated at 34 miles per gallon in city driving. Environmentalists have long complained about the poor gas mileage of the Crown Victoria, which gets 10 to 15 miles to the gallon in city traffic. But taxi owners and drivers say they like the vehicle&#8217;s spaciousness, dependability and safety. In the last two years the city has added about 375 hybrid vehicles to the yellow cab fleet, including models like the , a sport utility vehicle; and Ford Escape, another S.U.V. Under the mayor&#8217;s plan, that number would triple by October 2008 and would grow by about 20 percent each year after that. While the plan does not specifically require that the new taxis be hybrids, it calls for all new vehicles entering the fleet beginning in October 2008 to get at least 25 miles to the gallon, rising to 30 miles to the gallon for cars entering the fleet the following year. City officials said the only vehicles that currently meet those fuel standards, as well as tougher emission standards that the mayor is proposing, are hybrids. Mr. Bloomberg said the new regulations would have little impact on the city&#8217;s cab owners, who by law are required to replace their vehicles every three to five years, depending on their use. The city&#8217;s yellow cabs are privately owned but regulated by the Taxi and Limousine Commission, the head of which is appointed by the mayor. He said the slightly higher cost of buying hybrid vehicles would be offset by the average $10,000 a year owners would save in fuel costs. The mayor&#8217;s proposal for higher fuel standards was first reported in The Daily News yesterday. PlaNYC initially called for converting the fleet within 10 years. But Mr. Bloomberg said City Councilman David Yassky, a longtime advocate of a greener taxi fleet, had persuaded him to cut that time in half. The faster schedule, however, also reflects the mayor&#8217;s desire to get as much of his PlaNYC carried out before he leaves office at the end of 2009, especially those elements that do not require state approval or financing. &#8220;I&#8217;ve never liked to plan something and then have somebody else have the responsibility of doing it or paying for it,&#8221; the mayor said yesterday. The mayor and Mr. Yassky appeared together on the &#8220;Today&#8221; show and at a separate announcement at City Hall, flanked by 3 of 10 new hybrid Ford Escapes donated yesterday by Yahoo Inc. to a fleet operator, Team Systems. &#8220;They gave us 10 cars, which they&#8217;re paying for, which is a heck of an impetus for us to go ahead and say, &#8216;Let&#8217;s do it now,&#8217; &#8221; the mayor said. Cabdrivers and owners had mixed feelings about the mandate yesterday. &#8220;The trick is to balance passenger comfort and safety, for the both the passenger and the driver, with environmental concerns,&#8221; Michael Woloz, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, an industry group, said yesterday. &#8220;The stretch Crown Victoria has met all those needs.&#8221; Liaquat Janjma, 50, drives the night shift in a cab owned by a friend. Six months ago they switched from a Crown Victoria to a Toyota Highlander Hybrid, and the impact was immediate, saving him $20 to $50 a shift. &#8220;The only bad thing is that repairs can be very, very expensive,&#8221; he said. Matthew W. Daus, chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said that even with higher maintenance costs, &#8220;when you add it all up, with the gas savings, it&#8217;s going to mean more money in the drivers&#8217; pockets.&#8221; San Francisco, Boston and other cities have introduced hybrids into their taxi fleets, but New York City officials said the mayor&#8217;s plan was believed to be the most extensive of any major city. The officials said the new fleets would cut carbon dioxide emissions by 215,000 metric tons a year, just a small fraction of the 58.3 million metric tons the city produces each year. Still, Kate Sindig, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council , said the mayor&#8217;s plan would &#8220;have real impacts, both in terms of air pollution and &#8220;It also sends a really powerful signal around the world,&#8221; she added, &#8220;because New York is a city that is looked to around the world.&#8221; Kate Hammer contributed reporting. York Region Mark a Cab Centennial, These Designers Look Ahead GREEN TECH; Is That a Tinge of Green on New York's Yellow Cabs? CITY LORE; King Cab Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers York Region &#x00bb; De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/23/nyregion/23taxi.html?ex=1337572800&en=d8475b3afe294e39&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Mayor Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet Left, Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News; right, Chris Hondros/Getty Images A Ford Escape Hybrid. 2007 The spacious but gas-guzzling , long the emblematic vehicle of the city&#8217;s yellow cab fleet, would be replaced by cleaner, more fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles under a five-year plan proposed by Mayor on The Empire Zone Blog » The move, which requires approval by the city&#8217;s Taxi and Limousine Commission , is part of the mayor&#8217;s ambitious environmental agenda for the city, PlaNYC, which calls for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2030. &#8220;There&#8217;s an awful lot of taxicabs on the streets of New York City obviously, so it makes a real big difference,&#8221; Mayor Bloomberg said on NBC&#8217;s &#8220;Today&#8221; show yesterday. &#8220;These cars just sit there in traffic sometimes, belching fumes. This does a lot less; it&#8217;s a lot better for all of us.&#8221; Replacing the city&#8217;s 13,000 yellow cabs, more than 90 percent of which are Crown Victorias, with hybrid vehicles would have the same impact on air quality as removing 32,000 privately owned vehicles from the road, the mayor said. Hybrids, which run on a combination of gasoline and electricity, emit less exhaust and are far more fuel-efficient; a hybrid , for instance, is rated at 34 miles per gallon in city driving. Environmentalists have long complained about the poor gas mileage of the Crown Victoria, which gets 10 to 15 miles to the gallon in city traffic. But taxi owners and drivers say they like the vehicle&#8217;s spaciousness, dependability and safety. In the last two years the city has added about 375 hybrid vehicles to the yellow cab fleet, including models like the , a sport utility vehicle; and Ford Escape, another S.U.V. Under the mayor&#8217;s plan, that number would triple by October 2008 and would grow by about 20 percent each year after that. While the plan does not specifically require that the new taxis be hybrids, it calls for all new vehicles entering the fleet beginning in October 2008 to get at least 25 miles to the gallon, rising to 30 miles to the gallon for cars entering the fleet the following year. City officials said the only vehicles that currently meet those fuel standards, as well as tougher emission standards that the mayor is proposing, are hybrids. Mr. Bloomberg said the new regulations would have little impact on the city&#8217;s cab owners, who by law are required to replace their vehicles every three to five years, depending on their use. The city&#8217;s yellow cabs are privately owned but regulated by the Taxi and Limousine Commission, the head of which is appointed by the mayor. He said the slightly higher cost of buying hybrid vehicles would be offset by the average $10,000 a year owners would save in fuel costs. The mayor&#8217;s proposal for higher fuel standards was first reported in The Daily News yesterday. PlaNYC initially called for converting the fleet within 10 years. But Mr. Bloomberg said City Councilman David Yassky, a longtime advocate of a greener taxi fleet, had persuaded him to cut that time in half. The faster schedule, however, also reflects the mayor&#8217;s desire to get as much of his PlaNYC carried out before he leaves office at the end of 2009, especially those elements that do not require state approval or financing. &#8220;I&#8217;ve never liked to plan something and then have somebody else have the responsibility of doing it or paying for it,&#8221; the mayor said yesterday. The mayor and Mr. Yassky appeared together on the &#8220;Today&#8221; show and at a separate announcement at City Hall, flanked by 3 of 10 new hybrid Ford Escapes donated yesterday by Yahoo Inc. to a fleet operator, Team Systems. &#8220;They gave us 10 cars, which they&#8217;re paying for, which is a heck of an impetus for us to go ahead and say, &#8216;Let&#8217;s do it now,&#8217; &#8221; the mayor said. Cabdrivers and owners had mixed feelings about the mandate yesterday. &#8220;The trick is to balance passenger comfort and safety, for the both the passenger and the driver, with environmental concerns,&#8221; Michael Woloz, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, an industry group, said yesterday. &#8220;The stretch Crown Victoria has met all those needs.&#8221; Liaquat Janjma, 50, drives the night shift in a cab owned by a friend. Six months ago they switched from a Crown Victoria to a Toyota Highlander Hybrid, and the impact was immediate, saving him $20 to $50 a shift. &#8220;The only bad thing is that repairs can be very, very expensive,&#8221; he said. Matthew W. Daus, chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said that even with higher maintenance costs, &#8220;when you add it all up, with the gas savings, it&#8217;s going to mean more money in the drivers&#8217; pockets.&#8221; San Francisco, Boston and other cities have introduced hybrids into their taxi fleets, but New York City officials said the mayor&#8217;s plan was believed to be the most extensive of any major city. The officials said the new fleets would cut carbon dioxide emissions by 215,000 metric tons a year, just a small fraction of the 58.3 million metric tons the city produces each year. Still, Kate Sindig, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council , said the mayor&#8217;s plan would &#8220;have real impacts, both in terms of air pollution and &#8220;It also sends a really powerful signal around the world,&#8221; she added, &#8220;because New York is a city that is looked to around the world.&#8221; Kate Hammer contributed reporting. York Region Mark a Cab Centennial, These Designers Look Ahead GREEN TECH; Is That a Tinge of Green on New York's Yellow Cabs? CITY LORE; King Cab Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers York Region &#x00bb; De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Times delivery.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/23/us/23climate.html?ex=1337572800&en=e74be04a38d4abfe&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss California Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules - Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules 2007 ARLINGTON, Va., May 22 &#151; Officials from demanded on Tuesday that federal regulators allow the state to impose the strictest automobile and light truck emissions rules in the nation. They said that new regulations were needed to lessen the threat of and threatened to sue if the government did not allow them to go forward. California&#8217;s attorney general, Jerry Brown, told an panel here that the proposed standards on greenhouse gases were the most comprehensive effort in the nation&#8217;s history to address issues experts attribute to the gradual warming of the planet, including melting ice caps, rising sea levels and rampant wildfires. &#8220;Protecting our planet is not a partisan issue, and the states now want to do what we can in the absence of federal action,&#8221; said Mr. Brown, a former governor of California, &#8220;and the E.P.A. has no right to deny us the ability to move forward.&#8221; A representative of the auto industry warned that adopting the new California standards would be &#8220;counterproductive,&#8221; raising the price of cars, costing jobs and imposing inconsistent auto emissions standards around the country. Mr. Brown noted that the auto and oil industries objected to the new rules, but urged the E.P.A. panel to overrule them in the interests of the broader public. Eleven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have said they will adopt the California standards if the federal government approves them. Together they account for roughly 30 percent of the American population and 30 percent of the vehicles on the road. Tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks account for about a third of all the greenhouse gas production in the United States. California is seeking a waiver under the federal Clean Air Act to enact its own emissions standards with a goal of reducing greenhouse gas production from vehicles by 30 percent by 2016. California officials argue that affordable technology exists to make cars run cleaner and burn less fuel, and thus produce less carbon dioxide and other pollutants that may contribute to global warming. E.P.A. officials gave no indication how or when they would rule on California&#8217;s petition. Another public hearing is scheduled for next week in Sacramento, and the agency is accepting public comment for several weeks after that. Officials from the 12 states have said they will sue if the E.P.A. does not grant the waiver by October. The agency has granted California some 50 such waivers since the first federal clean air laws were enacted in the 1960s, and California has long been at the forefront of air quality regulation. California applied for the current waiver in December 2005. Steven Douglas, director of environmental affairs for a consortium of auto manufacturers, said the California rules would be costly and reduce the types and sizes of vehicles available to consumers, arguments the industry has used to oppose new fuel-efficiency standards. Mr. Douglas said the industry supported improving mileage standards, but warned that forcing automakers to increase mileage would cost jobs, make cars less safe and harm the economy. He said California had not proven that its new regulations would actually help slow global warming. He urged regulators to reject the tough new California rules and move more gradually toward national standards on emissions and fuel economy. &#8220;In this light,&#8221; Mr. Douglas said, &#8220;a patchwork of state-level fuel economy regulations as is now proposed by California is not just unnecessary but actually counterproductive.&#8221; Numerous witnesses at the E.P.A. hearing on Tuesday rejected those arguments, saying they were reminiscent of claims made by the car companies over the years to try to delay or defeat various safety and environmental regulations. Briefing | West: California: Suit Over Emissions Is Threatened Detroit Decides to Help Shape, Not Resist, Regulation of Emissions Bush Splits on Greenhouse Gases With Congress and State Officials THE COURT AND CLIMATE CHANGE; JUSTICES SAY E.P.A. HAS POWER TO ACT ON HARMFUL GASES &#x00bb; De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands The North Pole Was Here by Andrew C. Revkin Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/23/us/23climate.html?ex=1337572800&en=e74be04a38d4abfe&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss California Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules 2007 ARLINGTON, Va., May 22 &#151; Officials from demanded on Tuesday that federal regulators allow the state to impose the strictest automobile and light truck emissions rules in the nation. They said that new regulations were needed to lessen the threat of and threatened to sue if the government did not allow them to go forward. California&#8217;s attorney general, Jerry Brown, told an panel here that the proposed standards on greenhouse gases were the most comprehensive effort in the nation&#8217;s history to address issues experts attribute to the gradual warming of the planet, including melting ice caps, rising sea levels and rampant wildfires. &#8220;Protecting our planet is not a partisan issue, and the states now want to do what we can in the absence of federal action,&#8221; said Mr. Brown, a former governor of California, &#8220;and the E.P.A. has no right to deny us the ability to move forward.&#8221; A representative of the auto industry warned that adopting the new California standards would be &#8220;counterproductive,&#8221; raising the price of cars, costing jobs and imposing inconsistent auto emissions standards around the country. Mr. Brown noted that the auto and oil industries objected to the new rules, but urged the E.P.A. panel to overrule them in the interests of the broader public. Eleven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have said they will adopt the California standards if the federal government approves them. Together they account for roughly 30 percent of the American population and 30 percent of the vehicles on the road. Tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks account for about a third of all the greenhouse gas production in the United States. California is seeking a waiver under the federal Clean Air Act to enact its own emissions standards with a goal of reducing greenhouse gas production from vehicles by 30 percent by 2016. California officials argue that affordable technology exists to make cars run cleaner and burn less fuel, and thus produce less carbon dioxide and other pollutants that may contribute to global warming. E.P.A. officials gave no indication how or when they would rule on California&#8217;s petition. Another public hearing is scheduled for next week in Sacramento, and the agency is accepting public comment for several weeks after that. Officials from the 12 states have said they will sue if the E.P.A. does not grant the waiver by October. The agency has granted California some 50 such waivers since the first federal clean air laws were enacted in the 1960s, and California has long been at the forefront of air quality regulation. California applied for the current waiver in December 2005. Steven Douglas, director of environmental affairs for a consortium of auto manufacturers, said the California rules would be costly and reduce the types and sizes of vehicles available to consumers, arguments the industry has used to oppose new fuel-efficiency standards. Mr. Douglas said the industry supported improving mileage standards, but warned that forcing automakers to increase mileage would cost jobs, make cars less safe and harm the economy. He said California had not proven that its new regulations would actually help slow global warming. He urged regulators to reject the tough new California rules and move more gradually toward national standards on emissions and fuel economy. &#8220;In this light,&#8221; Mr. Douglas said, &#8220;a patchwork of state-level fuel economy regulations as is now proposed by California is not just unnecessary but actually counterproductive.&#8221; Numerous witnesses at the E.P.A. hearing on Tuesday rejected those arguments, saying they were reminiscent of claims made by the car companies over the years to try to delay or defeat various safety and environmental regulations. &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. Briefing | West: California: Suit Over Emissions Is Threatened Detroit Decides to Help Shape, Not Resist, Regulation of Emissions Bush Splits on Greenhouse Gases With Congress and State Officials THE COURT AND CLIMATE CHANGE; JUSTICES SAY E.P.A. HAS POWER TO ACT ON HARMFUL GASES &#x00bb; De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Pole Was Here by Andrew C. Revkin
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/26/business/26small.html And Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway - Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway 2007 DETROIT, May 25 — With gas prices well over $3 a gallon nationwide, many drivers are lining up to buy small cars. Skip to next paragraph Small Cars Are Big Again But hundreds of thousands of consumers aren’t giving up anything to downsize. Instead, they are simply adding pint-size transportation to their driveways, parked alongside their S.U.V. or pickup. In households that own a small car, the family fleet is close to an average of three vehicles, according to CNW Marketing Research, which tracks industry trends (the national average is just over two cars per household; America was a one-car-per-family nation a generation ago). These growing fleets suggest an approach to conservation that is more addition than subtraction. “Small cars are like a fashion statement,” said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing. For three small cars — the and Corolla and the — more than 500,000 were sold last year as second or third cars in a household, CNW data shows. Ken Collinsworth, 53, bought a last month for his daughter to take to college this fall. But with gas close to $4 a gallon near his home in Paso Robles, Calif., Mr. Collinsworth has been driving the Yaris instead of his BMW X5 sport utility and GMC Sierra pickup. “I steal it from her every chance I get,” said Mr. Collinsworth, who added that he would like to get another Yaris when his daughter leaves for college. In another era, he might be pitied for parking one of his luxury cars to drive around in an econobox. But unlike small cars during the disco era, which had few creature comforts, the latest crop of small cars — including the Yaris, — can be purchased with many of the same sought-after options as their bigger kin, like navigation screens or “It is a fundamental change,” Mr. Spinella said. “People are willing to buy small cars because they are more sophisticated.” And buyers appear willing to pay a lot for them. In 1990, buyers stuck to the low end of the scale when they bought a small car, CNW’s data shows. More than three-quarters opted for basic no-frills models, sometimes even forgoing a radio to keep the price down. Now, 90 percent of buyers are buying fully loaded small cars, according to the data. “You look at these cars, and they have 16-inch wheels and a leather-wrapped steering wheel and a high-quality interior,” said A. Andrew Shapiro, a partner in the Casesa Shapiro Group, an auto industry investment and advisory firm. “They aren’t econoboxes, they’re just smaller cars,” Mr. Shapiro added. To be sure, many owners are downsizing from bigger vehicles, and rising gas prices are the primary reason. But others are adding vehicles, also to save on gas (if not the cost of the additional car). Pierre Tremblay, 67, of Howell, Mich., bought a Toyota Prius this month because driving his Dodge Ram pickup 40 miles round-trip to work was costing so much. So far the Prius is getting 55 miles per gallon, compared with 13 for the truck. “I can go to work now, back and forth, on less than a gallon,” said Mr. Tremblay, a maintenance manager for a cement company. “Before it was at least three.” With regular unleaded gas averaging $3.53 a gallon in Michigan this week, according to AAA, that is a savings of over $8 every workday. But Mr. Tremblay was not ready to get rid of his pickup, which he uses to haul a camping trailer. Americans have spent $20 billion more on gasoline so far this year compared with 2006, according to a recent report by the . That works out to about $146 a person, a fraction of what a new car costs. “From a dollars-and-cents point of view, it doesn’t make sense,” said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis for Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice. “There’s no way you’re going to drive it enough to justify the purchase, so it’s more of a psychological decision.” That is particularly true for premium models, like the Mini Cooper, as well as cars in ’s Scion lineup. When decked out with options like aluminum wheel covers and leather seats, their prices can climb well above $20,000, the same as a family sedan or a midsize S.U.V. Even another Yaris would cost Mr. Collinsworth about $13,000 — if he could meet the conditions set down by his wife to buy one. He said that when he broached the subject recently, she replied: “Sell your truck and you can buy one.” Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Canton, Mich. SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming China's Automakers, With Beijing's Prodding, Show Alternative-Fuel Cars President Promotes Alternative Energy With a Car Show of Sorts Bush Expected to Make Call For Improved Fuel Economy Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/26/business/26small.html And Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway 2007 DETROIT, May 25 — With gas prices well over $3 a gallon nationwide, many drivers are lining up to buy small cars. Cars Are Big Again But hundreds of thousands of consumers aren’t giving up anything to downsize. Instead, they are simply adding pint-size transportation to their driveways, parked alongside their S.U.V. or pickup. In households that own a small car, the family fleet is close to an average of three vehicles, according to CNW Marketing Research, which tracks industry trends (the national average is just over two cars per household; America was a one-car-per-family nation a generation ago). These growing fleets suggest an approach to conservation that is more addition than subtraction. “Small cars are like a fashion statement,” said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing. For three small cars — the and Corolla and the — more than 500,000 were sold last year as second or third cars in a household, CNW data shows. Ken Collinsworth, 53, bought a last month for his daughter to take to college this fall. But with gas close to $4 a gallon near his home in Paso Robles, Calif., Mr. Collinsworth has been driving the Yaris instead of his BMW X5 sport utility and GMC Sierra pickup. “I steal it from her every chance I get,” said Mr. Collinsworth, who added that he would like to get another Yaris when his daughter leaves for college. In another era, he might be pitied for parking one of his luxury cars to drive around in an econobox. But unlike small cars during the disco era, which had few creature comforts, the latest crop of small cars — including the Yaris, — can be purchased with many of the same sought-after options as their bigger kin, like navigation screens or “It is a fundamental change,” Mr. Spinella said. “People are willing to buy small cars because they are more sophisticated.” And buyers appear willing to pay a lot for them. In 1990, buyers stuck to the low end of the scale when they bought a small car, CNW’s data shows. More than three-quarters opted for basic no-frills models, sometimes even forgoing a radio to keep the price down. Now, 90 percent of buyers are buying fully loaded small cars, according to the data. “You look at these cars, and they have 16-inch wheels and a leather-wrapped steering wheel and a high-quality interior,” said A. Andrew Shapiro, a partner in the Casesa Shapiro Group, an auto industry investment and advisory firm. “They aren’t econoboxes, they’re just smaller cars,” Mr. Shapiro added. To be sure, many owners are downsizing from bigger vehicles, and rising gas prices are the primary reason. But others are adding vehicles, also to save on gas (if not the cost of the additional car). Pierre Tremblay, 67, of Howell, Mich., bought a Toyota Prius this month because driving his Dodge Ram pickup 40 miles round-trip to work was costing so much. So far the Prius is getting 55 miles per gallon, compared with 13 for the truck. “I can go to work now, back and forth, on less than a gallon,” said Mr. Tremblay, a maintenance manager for a cement company. “Before it was at least three.” With regular unleaded gas averaging $3.53 a gallon in Michigan this week, according to AAA, that is a savings of over $8 every workday. But Mr. Tremblay was not ready to get rid of his pickup, which he uses to haul a camping trailer. Americans have spent $20 billion more on gasoline so far this year compared with 2006, according to a recent report by the . That works out to about $146 a person, a fraction of what a new car costs. “From a dollars-and-cents point of view, it doesn’t make sense,” said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis for Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice. “There’s no way you’re going to drive it enough to justify the purchase, so it’s more of a psychological decision.” That is particularly true for premium models, like the Mini Cooper, as well as cars in ’s Scion lineup. When decked out with options like aluminum wheel covers and leather seats, their prices can climb well above $20,000, the same as a family sedan or a midsize S.U.V. Even another Yaris would cost Mr. Collinsworth about $13,000 — if he could meet the conditions set down by his wife to buy one. He said that when he broached the subject recently, she replied: “Sell your truck and you can buy one.” Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Canton, Mich. SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming China's Automakers, With Beijing's Prodding, Show Alternative-Fuel Cars President Promotes Alternative Energy With a Car Show of Sorts Bush Expected to Make Call For Improved Fuel Economy Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates) &#x00bb; a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank East Harlem Swimming Pool - 2004
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/27BANDIT.html?ex=1337918400&en=3af52195687ea987&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) - This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Making time on the Bandit Run. 2007 Skip to next paragraph TODAY is the 30th anniversary of the release of the movie “Smokey and the Bandit,” a Burt Reynolds romp that the actor once described as “a little like eating Chinese food — about an hour after you see the movie, you may want to go see another one.” But for many people, the real star of the movie was the car he drove: a 1977 black Trans Am with gold striping and a “thunder chicken” graphic on the hood. With plenty of Hollywood stunts and trick driving, the Trans Am left an impression. To commemorate the anniversary of the movie, a driving event called the Bandit Run 2007 was held from May 15 to May 17, with about 200 participants in 85 cars traveling the 660 miles from Texarkana, Tex., to Atlanta, the route traveled in the movie. The event was open to anyone; owning a Trans Am was not required. The movie is about a trucker, nicknamed Snowman and played by Jerry Reed, and his decoy and lookout man, Bandit, played by Mr. Reynolds, who agree to transport 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana to Atlanta. It is Bandit’s job to occupy the police — nicknamed Smokey — so the tractor-trailer of beer can make it to Atlanta without being discovered. Thirty years ago, Coors beer was not sold in states east of the Mississippi River. In the south, Texas was the cut-off line. The idea for the Bandit Run was a collaboration of David Hershey of Keller, Tex., and Dave Hall, the owner of Restore a Muscle Car, a restoration shop in Lincoln, Neb., who said they thought it would be fun to recreate the road trip from the movie on its 30th anniversary. Mr. Hall’s shop had restored Mr. Hershey’s 1977 black Pontiac Trans Am SE, or special edition, which replicated the paint scheme of the Trans Am used in the movie. Mr. Hall and Mr. Hershey promoted the event on Motortopia, a motor enthusiast’s Web site. More than 300 joined the Bandit Run group, many posting photos and videos of their cars. Bandit Run participants came to Texarkana from all over the United States. I wanted to attend, but I also wanted to arrive in the right car, so on April 20 I bought a black 1979 Trans Am with almost 100,000 miles for about $10,000 at a collector-car auction in Branson, Mo. I had always wanted a black Trans Am and this was my excuse to finally fulfill my dream. I bought one like the car in the movie. Jim Cox, who, along with his wife, Kathy, owns the collector-car auction, found a mechanic to prepare the car for the trip. The air-conditioning was repaired, new front springs were installed, and the tires, brakes and shocks were inspected, adjusted and, in some cases, replaced. The foam was also replaced on the two front seats. The Bandit Run group gathered with their cars May 15 at the Tex-Ark Antique Auto Museum. The mayors of Texarkana, Tex., and Texarkana, Ark., welcomed us. Pontiac Firebird Trans Ams from most model years were among the 25 or so cars there for the start. More cars, including many Trans Ams, dropped in and out of the run along the route. Talking with the participants, one theme appeared continually: most were fascinated by the car in the movie and most first saw “Smokey and the Bandit” when they were much younger. Jed Morgan of Call, Tex., said he was “born in 1977, the same year as the movie.” “I watched the movie likely since I was 3,” he said. Mr. Morgan, 29, a nursing student, was traveling with his brother, R.J., 18, in a black 1977 Trans Am. Jed Morgan bought his car last year on eBay and is already devoted to it. “I’ve already made arrangements that my brother will drive it in my funeral procession, if he survives me,” Jed Morgan said. “It will be in front of the hearse.” We left Texarkana on that Tuesday morning with a police escort. In many of the small towns we drove through, police cars had pulled over with officers standing beside their cars like an informal honor guard. Most officers waved as we passed. The first leg of our journey, and the longest drive, was on the first day. The 382 miles from Texarkana to Tupelo, Miss., was mostly on rural two-lane roads. We had good weather for most of the trip, with the exception of a cloudburst that happily coincided with a lunch stop. REVIEW; Kiss Kiss, Vroom Vroom:They Were Born to Drive FILM REVIEW; Back to the Double Feature Film in Review; Tales of the Rat Fink Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Elizabeth Taylor - 1985 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/27BANDIT.html?ex=1337918400&en=3af52195687ea987&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Making time on the Bandit Run. 2007 is the 30th anniversary of the release of the movie “Smokey and the Bandit,” a Burt Reynolds romp that the actor once described as “a little like eating Chinese food — about an hour after you see the movie, you may want to go see another one.” But for many people, the real star of the movie was the car he drove: a 1977 black Trans Am with gold striping and a “thunder chicken” graphic on the hood. With plenty of Hollywood stunts and trick driving, the Trans Am left an impression. To commemorate the anniversary of the movie, a driving event called the Bandit Run 2007 was held from May 15 to May 17, with about 200 participants in 85 cars traveling the 660 miles from Texarkana, Tex., to Atlanta, the route traveled in the movie. The event was open to anyone; owning a Trans Am was not required. The movie is about a trucker, nicknamed Snowman and played by Jerry Reed, and his decoy and lookout man, Bandit, played by Mr. Reynolds, who agree to transport 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana to Atlanta. It is Bandit’s job to occupy the police — nicknamed Smokey — so the tractor-trailer of beer can make it to Atlanta without being discovered. Thirty years ago, Coors beer was not sold in states east of the Mississippi River. In the south, Texas was the cut-off line. The idea for the Bandit Run was a collaboration of David Hershey of Keller, Tex., and Dave Hall, the owner of Restore a Muscle Car, a restoration shop in Lincoln, Neb., who said they thought it would be fun to recreate the road trip from the movie on its 30th anniversary. Mr. Hall’s shop had restored Mr. Hershey’s 1977 black Pontiac Trans Am SE, or special edition, which replicated the paint scheme of the Trans Am used in the movie. Mr. Hall and Mr. Hershey promoted the event on Motortopia, a motor enthusiast’s Web site. More than 300 joined the Bandit Run group, many posting photos and videos of their cars. Bandit Run participants came to Texarkana from all over the United States. I wanted to attend, but I also wanted to arrive in the right car, so on April 20 I bought a black 1979 Trans Am with almost 100,000 miles for about $10,000 at a collector-car auction in Branson, Mo. I had always wanted a black Trans Am and this was my excuse to finally fulfill my dream. I bought one like the car in the movie. Jim Cox, who, along with his wife, Kathy, owns the collector-car auction, found a mechanic to prepare the car for the trip. The air-conditioning was repaired, new front springs were installed, and the tires, brakes and shocks were inspected, adjusted and, in some cases, replaced. The foam was also replaced on the two front seats. The Bandit Run group gathered with their cars May 15 at the Tex-Ark Antique Auto Museum. The mayors of Texarkana, Tex., and Texarkana, Ark., welcomed us. Pontiac Firebird Trans Ams from most model years were among the 25 or so cars there for the start. More cars, including many Trans Ams, dropped in and out of the run along the route. Talking with the participants, one theme appeared continually: most were fascinated by the car in the movie and most first saw “Smokey and the Bandit” when they were much younger. Jed Morgan of Call, Tex., said he was “born in 1977, the same year as the movie.” “I watched the movie likely since I was 3,” he said. Mr. Morgan, 29, a nursing student, was traveling with his brother, R.J., 18, in a black 1977 Trans Am. Jed Morgan bought his car last year on eBay and is already devoted to it. “I’ve already made arrangements that my brother will drive it in my funeral procession, if he survives me,” Jed Morgan said. “It will be in front of the hearse.” We left Texarkana on that Tuesday morning with a police escort. In many of the small towns we drove through, police cars had pulled over with officers standing beside their cars like an informal honor guard. Most officers waved as we passed. The first leg of our journey, and the longest drive, was on the first day. The 382 miles from Texarkana to Tupelo, Miss., was mostly on rural two-lane roads. We had good weather for most of the trip, with the exception of a cloudburst that happily coincided with a lunch stop. REVIEW; Kiss Kiss, Vroom Vroom:They Were Born to Drive FILM REVIEW; Back to the Double Feature Film in Review; Tales of the Rat Fink Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/27DESIGN.html?ex=1337918400&en=0ce03d300ddaba71&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss From a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies - a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies 2007 AS Daimler and Chrysler negotiate their separation, the sedan widely regarded as the best design to come from their marriage, the Chrysler 300, might imagine itself in a movie moment: She is a lovely daughter at the prom. In a bittersweet scene, the divorcing mom and dad are ruefully proud: “At least our marriage produced her!” When Daimler-Benz bought Chrysler a decade ago, predictions for the offspring — chunky German sedan meets lithe PT Cruiser — ran to cartoonish extremes. But the 300 hangs marvelously and daringly on the edge of cartoonlike excess, never quite succumbing. The 300 and its Dodge sibling, the Charger, combine American bravado with German solidity, just as the authors of the merger hoped. The Charger and the 300 changed the definition of the American sedan with an influence as profound as that of the original in the mid-1980s or the cab-forward Chrysler LH cars — the — that helped to save the company in the ’90s. One of the ideas behind the union was to join German taste and restraint with the sort of American exuberance and design vitality demonstrated by Tom Gale, vice president for design at Chrysler from 1985 to 2000, in creating the Prowler, Viper, PT Cruiser and LH sedans. Did the effort pay off? The record is not bad. For all the hits and misses in auto show design studies, for all the ideas that never quite gelled, the designers of Chrysler’s staff, led today by Trevor Creed, senior vice president for design of the Chrysler Group (and a veteran of Ford’s original Taurus team), have a lot to boast about: wins as big as the 300 and Charger are historic. The 300 had roots in designs done for the auto show circuit. Directing a team of designers from Chrysler’s Pacifica advanced design studio in Carlsbad, Calif., Freeman Thomas, now the director for North American strategic design at Ford, helped dream up the concept of the noble sedan, a stately and grandly proportioned big car. With the Ford Interceptor concept vehicle, Mr. Thomas has provided Ford with its own version of the noble sedan theme. The themes of the 300 and Charger (and Dodge’s wagon version of the platform, the Magnum) lay in cars like the Super 8 Hemi design study, with its oddball reversed windshield pillar, developed under Mr. Thomas. Shown in 2001, it was widely derided. Yet elements of the idea — especially the sense of overstatement — showed up in the Charger and Magnum. Mr. Creed had similar ideas for a breakthrough design. He also envisioned a car with a high beltline and exaggerated forms that visually suggested power, and at the same time promised solidity and security. It would stand out on the road like nothing else. “The car embodies a holistic approach to design," Mr. Creed said when the 300 was unveiled. “Every line and proportion provide visual promise for the automobile, including its driving experience.” He put Ralph Gilles — at the time, head of Studio 3 at Chrysler — in charge of what became the 300 and Charger. Mr. Gilles is today vice president for Jeep and truck design. The 300 clicked. Some 60,000 were sold in the first six months. Sales were also strong for the Charger sedan and Magnum wagon. The 300 was a new kind of Chrysler, one that seemed to possess a bit of Mercedes-Benz. Mercedes drivers immediately recognized the characteristic stalk-style cruise control in the cockpit of the 300, just like the stalk they hit when signaling a turn. The mouth-breathing macho face and the big, haunched bodies of the cars cried out for larger wheels and a certain hip-hop chic. Touches of panache — tortoise-shell trim on the steering wheel of the 300, for instance — reflected American flamboyance that crossed over into excess when Snoop Dogg and other hip-hop figures endorsed the look. Other creations of the DaimlerChrysler combination were less successful. The two-seaters, imagined as an American version of the Mercedes SLK roadster, never captured many hearts. Designed as a concept by Eric Stoddard, a young designer who has since moved to Kia, the Crossfire went on sale in 2003. Mr. Stoddard said the car was intended to combine the spirit of European sports cars with American ones. A test case of joint design and development, the Crossfire was built on the underpinnings of the SLK, already several years old, and was built in the same German factory by Karmann, a subcontractor. Some reviewers found the driving dynamics of the Crossfire preferable to the SLK, but the chassis was already showing its age. The SLK was replaced a year later, leaving Chrysler with hand-me-down technology. With its oversize grille, ribbed hood, complicated side vent, spine of chrome accents and overstated duck’s tail, the Crossfire suggested American exuberance out of control. The car appeared to be the work of a brilliant student who poured all his ideas into a single car. Any one of the themes might have pleased buyers; together, they only confused. Other design efforts of the union included the Pacifica, Chrysler’s attempt to move beyond the minivan. Mercedes did better with its own version of the idea, the Grand Sports Tourer design study of 2004, which became the R-Class. There were few fresh ideas for Jeep, which did little to expand its claim on the American soul. (Consider what Hummer achieved in the same period.) The minivan franchise, on the other hand, was skillfully maintained even as it shrank. Should A Chinese Car Look Like? DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise DESIGN; Showing Off Cars With Real Curves DESIGN; Body Language: How to Talk the Designers' Talk Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/27DESIGN.html?ex=1337918400&en=0ce03d300ddaba71&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss From a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies 2007 AS Daimler and Chrysler negotiate their separation, the sedan widely regarded as the best design to come from their marriage, the Chrysler 300, might imagine itself in a movie moment: She is a lovely daughter at the prom. In a bittersweet scene, the divorcing mom and dad are ruefully proud: “At least our marriage produced her!” When Daimler-Benz bought Chrysler a decade ago, predictions for the offspring — chunky German sedan meets lithe PT Cruiser — ran to cartoonish extremes. But the 300 hangs marvelously and daringly on the edge of cartoonlike excess, never quite succumbing. The 300 and its Dodge sibling, the Charger, combine American bravado with German solidity, just as the authors of the merger hoped. The Charger and the 300 changed the definition of the American sedan with an influence as profound as that of the original in the mid-1980s or the cab-forward Chrysler LH cars — the — that helped to save the company in the ’90s. One of the ideas behind the union was to join German taste and restraint with the sort of American exuberance and design vitality demonstrated by Tom Gale, vice president for design at Chrysler from 1985 to 2000, in creating the Prowler, Viper, PT Cruiser and LH sedans. Did the effort pay off? The record is not bad. For all the hits and misses in auto show design studies, for all the ideas that never quite gelled, the designers of Chrysler’s staff, led today by Trevor Creed, senior vice president for design of the Chrysler Group (and a veteran of Ford’s original Taurus team), have a lot to boast about: wins as big as the 300 and Charger are historic. The 300 had roots in designs done for the auto show circuit. Directing a team of designers from Chrysler’s Pacifica advanced design studio in Carlsbad, Calif., Freeman Thomas, now the director for North American strategic design at Ford, helped dream up the concept of the noble sedan, a stately and grandly proportioned big car. With the Ford Interceptor concept vehicle, Mr. Thomas has provided Ford with its own version of the noble sedan theme. The themes of the 300 and Charger (and Dodge’s wagon version of the platform, the Magnum) lay in cars like the Super 8 Hemi design study, with its oddball reversed windshield pillar, developed under Mr. Thomas. Shown in 2001, it was widely derided. Yet elements of the idea — especially the sense of overstatement — showed up in the Charger and Magnum. Mr. Creed had similar ideas for a breakthrough design. He also envisioned a car with a high beltline and exaggerated forms that visually suggested power, and at the same time promised solidity and security. It would stand out on the road like nothing else. “The car embodies a holistic approach to design," Mr. Creed said when the 300 was unveiled. “Every line and proportion provide visual promise for the automobile, including its driving experience.” He put Ralph Gilles — at the time, head of Studio 3 at Chrysler — in charge of what became the 300 and Charger. Mr. Gilles is today vice president for Jeep and truck design. The 300 clicked. Some 60,000 were sold in the first six months. Sales were also strong for the Charger sedan and Magnum wagon. The 300 was a new kind of Chrysler, one that seemed to possess a bit of Mercedes-Benz. Mercedes drivers immediately recognized the characteristic stalk-style cruise control in the cockpit of the 300, just like the stalk they hit when signaling a turn. The mouth-breathing macho face and the big, haunched bodies of the cars cried out for larger wheels and a certain hip-hop chic. Touches of panache — tortoise-shell trim on the steering wheel of the 300, for instance — reflected American flamboyance that crossed over into excess when Snoop Dogg and other hip-hop figures endorsed the look. Other creations of the DaimlerChrysler combination were less successful. The two-seaters, imagined as an American version of the Mercedes SLK roadster, never captured many hearts. Designed as a concept by Eric Stoddard, a young designer who has since moved to Kia, the Crossfire went on sale in 2003. Mr. Stoddard said the car was intended to combine the spirit of European sports cars with American ones. A test case of joint design and development, the Crossfire was built on the underpinnings of the SLK, already several years old, and was built in the same German factory by Karmann, a subcontractor. Some reviewers found the driving dynamics of the Crossfire preferable to the SLK, but the chassis was already showing its age. The SLK was replaced a year later, leaving Chrysler with hand-me-down technology. With its oversize grille, ribbed hood, complicated side vent, spine of chrome accents and overstated duck’s tail, the Crossfire suggested American exuberance out of control. The car appeared to be the work of a brilliant student who poured all his ideas into a single car. Any one of the themes might have pleased buyers; together, they only confused. Other design efforts of the union included the Pacifica, Chrysler’s attempt to move beyond the minivan. Mercedes did better with its own version of the idea, the Grand Sports Tourer design study of 2004, which became the R-Class. There were few fresh ideas for Jeep, which did little to expand its claim on the American soul. (Consider what Hummer achieved in the same period.) The minivan franchise, on the other hand, was skillfully maintained even as it shrank. Should A Chinese Car Look Like? DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise DESIGN; Showing Off Cars With Real Curves DESIGN; Body Language: How to Talk the Designers' Talk Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/autoreviews/27AUTO.html?ex=1337918400&en=5831dcfb0562db51&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Automombiles - Review - 2007 Nissan Altima - the Wheel | 2007 Nissan Altima The Pace Picks Up as Act 4 Begins 2007 Skip to next paragraph Midsize Matchups: How Some of the Newest Family Sedans Compare Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd Altima Coupe: Fewer Doors, More Drama BACK in 2001, Nissan badly needed a hit to revive its floundering business in North America, and the Altima delivered. The third-generation Altima, transformed from a dowdy, unloved compact into a sleek midsize sedan with sporty handling, brought younger customers to Nissan showrooms and gave the carmaker a serious competitor to the mighty Nissan’s recent woes, a dip in sales and profits, are hardly the sort of crisis that confronted the company six years ago. But Nissan is again turning to the Altima to refresh its image. While the fourth-generation car isn’t as big a leap as the third, this redesigned 2007 model gives Nissan a bit of needed sizzle in the crowded market for midsize, midprice front-wheel-drive sedans. The new Altima sedan is 2.5 inches shorter than last year’s model and it bulges a bit in the fenders, giving the car a more muscular appearance. The almost austere lines of the 2006 model have given way to elegant curves and folds in the sheet metal, along with high-tech-style taillamps and headlight styling that borrows from the Maxima and 350Z. But the passenger compartment is still roomy — indeed, rear legroom has been increased by a few inches. By the same token, the 15.3-cubic-foot trunk is still generously proportioned by the standards of midsize sedans, and the sedan is almost as versatile as a hatchback when its rear seat (split 60-40) is folded down. The model lineup retains the same nomenclature — and more important, the same engines, which are much more than satisfactory. The base 2.5 model, with a 2.5-liter in-line 4 that puts out 175 horsepower and up to 180 pound-feet of torque, comes without air-conditioning or automatic transmission. At $18,575, it is in the lineup as a price leader. The next step up is the value leader, the 2.5S with the same engine and a sticker of $20,425. It comes with disc brakes, halogen headlights, a six-speaker stereo, power windows and locks, air-conditioning and six air bags. It even has an “intelligent key” that needs only to be near the car to unlock the doors and enable the starter. But the great majority of Altimas delivered will come with some of the many available options. First on the list is a continuously variable transmission, or C.V.T., the only automatic available on Altimas ($500). Antilock brakes ($300), a rear spoiler ($360), an electrochromic self-dimming rearview mirror ($280) and fog lamps ($310) can also be had à la carte. But most options for the 2.5S are delivered in bundles. To get the satellite radio you must buy the premium Bose sound system ($1,200). Opting for a navigation system along with the Bose means buying a rearview camera and a Bluetooth phone system ($3,200). To get leather, you must buy a power driver’s seat, power sunroof, alloy wheels, heated front seats, automatic dual-zone air-conditioning ($3,850). So an Altima 2.5S configured just so can get expensive, fast. The Altima’s other trim lines are built around Nissan’s mainstay VQ35 engine, a 3.5-liter aluminum-block V-6 that also powers the Maxima sedan, Quest minivan, Murano crossover and 350Z sports car along with the Infiniti G35 and M35. The Altima’s version of the engine yields 270 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque. The Altima 3.5SE, with a power driver’s seat, C.V.T., 17-inch alloy wheels, antilock brakes, fog lights and a better-looking interior than the one in base 4-cylinder cars, costs $25,125. The plusher 3.5SL ($29,015) comes with all the expected goodies: leather, sunroof, automatic climate control, premium sound, xenon headlamps. Those who truly aspire to luxury can spend $2,000 more on a navigation unit, rearview camera and satellite radio (with perhaps the industry’s most maddening satellite radio interface). I drove the 2.5S, 3.5SL and the first-ever Altima Hybrid on the hilly open roads around Santa Barbara, as well as on the mean freeways of Los Angeles, and I was impressed by what a good car Nissan’s midsize sedan has become. Start with the 2.5S, which Nissan expects to constitute more than half of Altima sales. The interior, which in previous incarnations was dulled by acres of economy-grade plastic, is still unlikely to be confused with the cabin of an Audi or a Lexus, but it is now pleasant and airy. The gauges and controls are nicely positioned and the buttons are big. The front seats, built for well-fed Americans, are comfortable, if less supportive than I would have liked on twisty roads. The rear seat, usually an afterthought in midprice sedans, is first-rate. (One glitch has recently surfaced: if the remote keyfob comes in contact with a cellphone, under some circumstances the fob’s coding is wiped out and it becomes useless. Nissan is working on a fix.) Nod to Consumer Tastes, Nissan to Sell Cleaner Cars Again, Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler World Business Briefing | Asia: Japan: Vehicle Sales Keep Falling World Business Briefing | Asia: Japan: Nissan Plans Production Cuts Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/autoreviews/27AUTO.html?ex=1337918400&en=5831dcfb0562db51&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Automombiles - Review - 2007 Nissan Altima the Wheel | 2007 Nissan Altima The Pace Picks Up as Act 4 Begins 2007 Matchups: How Some of the Newest Family Sedans Compare Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd Altima Coupe: Fewer Doors, More Drama BACK in 2001, Nissan badly needed a hit to revive its floundering business in North America, and the Altima delivered. The third-generation Altima, transformed from a dowdy, unloved compact into a sleek midsize sedan with sporty handling, brought younger customers to Nissan showrooms and gave the carmaker a serious competitor to the mighty Nissan’s recent woes, a dip in sales and profits, are hardly the sort of crisis that confronted the company six years ago. But Nissan is again turning to the Altima to refresh its image. While the fourth-generation car isn’t as big a leap as the third, this redesigned 2007 model gives Nissan a bit of needed sizzle in the crowded market for midsize, midprice front-wheel-drive sedans. The new Altima sedan is 2.5 inches shorter than last year’s model and it bulges a bit in the fenders, giving the car a more muscular appearance. The almost austere lines of the 2006 model have given way to elegant curves and folds in the sheet metal, along with high-tech-style taillamps and headlight styling that borrows from the Maxima and 350Z. But the passenger compartment is still roomy — indeed, rear legroom has been increased by a few inches. By the same token, the 15.3-cubic-foot trunk is still generously proportioned by the standards of midsize sedans, and the sedan is almost as versatile as a hatchback when its rear seat (split 60-40) is folded down. The model lineup retains the same nomenclature — and more important, the same engines, which are much more than satisfactory. The base 2.5 model, with a 2.5-liter in-line 4 that puts out 175 horsepower and up to 180 pound-feet of torque, comes without air-conditioning or automatic transmission. At $18,575, it is in the lineup as a price leader. The next step up is the value leader, the 2.5S with the same engine and a sticker of $20,425. It comes with disc brakes, halogen headlights, a six-speaker stereo, power windows and locks, air-conditioning and six air bags. It even has an “intelligent key” that needs only to be near the car to unlock the doors and enable the starter. But the great majority of Altimas delivered will come with some of the many available options. First on the list is a continuously variable transmission, or C.V.T., the only automatic available on Altimas ($500). Antilock brakes ($300), a rear spoiler ($360), an electrochromic self-dimming rearview mirror ($280) and fog lamps ($310) can also be had à la carte. But most options for the 2.5S are delivered in bundles. To get the satellite radio you must buy the premium Bose sound system ($1,200). Opting for a navigation system along with the Bose means buying a rearview camera and a Bluetooth phone system ($3,200). To get leather, you must buy a power driver’s seat, power sunroof, alloy wheels, heated front seats, automatic dual-zone air-conditioning ($3,850). So an Altima 2.5S configured just so can get expensive, fast. The Altima’s other trim lines are built around Nissan’s mainstay VQ35 engine, a 3.5-liter aluminum-block V-6 that also powers the Maxima sedan, Quest minivan, Murano crossover and 350Z sports car along with the Infiniti G35 and M35. The Altima’s version of the engine yields 270 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque. The Altima 3.5SE, with a power driver’s seat, C.V.T., 17-inch alloy wheels, antilock brakes, fog lights and a better-looking interior than the one in base 4-cylinder cars, costs $25,125. The plusher 3.5SL ($29,015) comes with all the expected goodies: leather, sunroof, automatic climate control, premium sound, xenon headlamps. Those who truly aspire to luxury can spend $2,000 more on a navigation unit, rearview camera and satellite radio (with perhaps the industry’s most maddening satellite radio interface). I drove the 2.5S, 3.5SL and the first-ever Altima Hybrid on the hilly open roads around Santa Barbara, as well as on the mean freeways of Los Angeles, and I was impressed by what a good car Nissan’s midsize sedan has become. Start with the 2.5S, which Nissan expects to constitute more than half of Altima sales. The interior, which in previous incarnations was dulled by acres of economy-grade plastic, is still unlikely to be confused with the cabin of an Audi or a Lexus, but it is now pleasant and airy. The gauges and controls are nicely positioned and the buttons are big. The front seats, built for well-fed Americans, are comfortable, if less supportive than I would have liked on twisty roads. The rear seat, usually an afterthought in midprice sedans, is first-rate. (One glitch has recently surfaced: if the remote keyfob comes in contact with a cellphone, under some circumstances the fob’s coding is wiped out and it becomes useless. Nissan is working on a fix.) Nod to Consumer Tastes, Nissan to Sell Cleaner Cars Again, Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler World Business Briefing | Asia: Japan: Vehicle Sales Keep Falling World Business Briefing | Asia: Japan: Nissan Plans Production Cuts Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/collectibles/27BARN.html?ex=1337918400&en=edd8758cacc893ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Sleeping Beauty Since &#8217;62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback - Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback This 1938 Bugatti Atalante, parked by John W. Straus in 1962, will be auctioned by Christie&#146;s on June 3 at the Greenwich Concours d&#146;&#201;l&#233;gance. 2007 AMONG serious collectors, there are few mysteries; with only occasional exceptions, cars of particular significance have all been deeply researched and their histories well-documented. A Duesenberg or Ferrari expert knows when an important example will be coming to auction and can typically recite its ownership history in numbing detail, referring to the car not by something as vague as a model name but by its exact chassis number. Skip to next paragraph A Treasure in a Barn That is why the grapevine of the collector market buzzes when a rare car re-emerges after being out of sight for many years. Such is the case — and the source of anticipation — surrounding the French grand touring car from 1938, a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé. One of about 40 built, the Atalante is the last design of a talented young man before his early death, and one of the most daring shapes of its time. Adding to its mystique, the car, owned by a member of one of New York’s most prominent families, had not seen the light of day since 1962, when it was last registered for the road. The Atalante has not moved from its garage space — it is now sandwiched between a old Farmall tractor and a 1949 Jaguar Mark V sedan — in a New York City suburb since then. It will be auctioned on June 3 by Christie’s at the Greenwich Concours d’Élégance, at Roger Sherman Baldwin Park in Greenwich, Conn. Christie’s estimates that the car will sell for $300,000 to $400,000. While noncollectors might be shocked by that price for a car in this state of neglect, its as-found condition adds charm for many would-be Bugatti owners. Many vintage cars, even from the grandest marques, have suffered untold indignities, but this Atalante is remarkably original — with little more than small repairs at the rear and the addition of bumpers — and it has never sustained the harm of a botched restoration. Its value is related to Bugatti’s status as one of the most revered names in automotive history, memorable enough for the Volkswagen Group to revive the brand in recent years for a series of ultraexpensive sports cars. The founder of the company, Ettore Bugatti, built his first car in 1899 and gave them his name in 1910, when he established his company in the Alsace region, then under German control. Bugatti soon became known for superbly engineered racecars, one of which won the first Monaco Grand Prix in 1929. To finance the racing, the company built powerful cars for wealthy enthusiasts, a business model later adopted by Enzo Ferrari. Ettore’s son, Jean, grew up in the business and established himself as an imaginative and talented automotive engineer and designer. Jean, who died in 1939 while testing a racecar, designed the bodies for the Type 57 models. Of the 710 Type 57s built, about 40 carried the sleek two-door coupé body named Atalante, after the quick-footed young woman of Greek mythology who would not marry any man who could not outrun her. The owner of this particular Bugatti is John Wendell Straus. Mr. Straus, 87, is a grandson of Isador Straus, who built R.H. Macy & Co. into a retail giant and who, with his wife, Ida, was among those lost on the Titanic in 1912. John W. Straus has loved cars since childhood. His first, at the age of 14, was a Ford Model T that he kept for many years. As a student at Harvard, he spent much of his free time looking for old cars abandoned in fields near the Cambridge campus. He joined the military in 1942, where, as a pilot in the Army Air Force with a fluency in French, he trained Free French airmen in Alabama. After the war he joined the family business; as a Macy’s vice president he was deeply involved in the Thanksgiving Day Parade and served as the store’s liaison to the production team of “Miracle on 34th Street” when it filmed in Manhattan. Mr. Straus often found himself at Zumbach Motors on West 54th Street, one of the first foreign car repair shops in New York and a gathering place for show business personalities like Paul Whiteman and Dave Garroway. It was there one day in the early 1950s that Straus saw a rakish black and yellow Bugatti. It was not just the car’s looks that convinced him he had to own it, but also the obvious care and craftsmanship that went into its construction. Fifty, Finned and Fabulous Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Forget the Lamborghini. He'd Rather Drive a V-8. COLLECTING; Authentic, or Expert Fake? Due Diligence May Tell Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1964-67 Austin-Healey 3000 Mk III Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/collectibles/27BARN.html?ex=1337918400&en=edd8758cacc893ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Sleeping Beauty Since &#8217;62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback This 1938 Bugatti Atalante, parked by John W. Straus in 1962, will be auctioned by Christie&#146;s on June 3 at the Greenwich Concours d&#146;&#201;l&#233;gance. 2007 AMONG serious collectors, there are few mysteries; with only occasional exceptions, cars of particular significance have all been deeply researched and their histories well-documented. A Duesenberg or Ferrari expert knows when an important example will be coming to auction and can typically recite its ownership history in numbing detail, referring to the car not by something as vague as a model name but by its exact chassis number. Treasure in a Barn That is why the grapevine of the collector market buzzes when a rare car re-emerges after being out of sight for many years. Such is the case — and the source of anticipation — surrounding the French grand touring car from 1938, a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé. One of about 40 built, the Atalante is the last design of a talented young man before his early death, and one of the most daring shapes of its time. Adding to its mystique, the car, owned by a member of one of New York’s most prominent families, had not seen the light of day since 1962, when it was last registered for the road. The Atalante has not moved from its garage space — it is now sandwiched between a old Farmall tractor and a 1949 Jaguar Mark V sedan — in a New York City suburb since then. It will be auctioned on June 3 by Christie’s at the Greenwich Concours d’Élégance, at Roger Sherman Baldwin Park in Greenwich, Conn. Christie’s estimates that the car will sell for $300,000 to $400,000. While noncollectors might be shocked by that price for a car in this state of neglect, its as-found condition adds charm for many would-be Bugatti owners. Many vintage cars, even from the grandest marques, have suffered untold indignities, but this Atalante is remarkably original — with little more than small repairs at the rear and the addition of bumpers — and it has never sustained the harm of a botched restoration. Its value is related to Bugatti’s status as one of the most revered names in automotive history, memorable enough for the Volkswagen Group to revive the brand in recent years for a series of ultraexpensive sports cars. The founder of the company, Ettore Bugatti, built his first car in 1899 and gave them his name in 1910, when he established his company in the Alsace region, then under German control. Bugatti soon became known for superbly engineered racecars, one of which won the first Monaco Grand Prix in 1929. To finance the racing, the company built powerful cars for wealthy enthusiasts, a business model later adopted by Enzo Ferrari. Ettore’s son, Jean, grew up in the business and established himself as an imaginative and talented automotive engineer and designer. Jean, who died in 1939 while testing a racecar, designed the bodies for the Type 57 models. Of the 710 Type 57s built, about 40 carried the sleek two-door coupé body named Atalante, after the quick-footed young woman of Greek mythology who would not marry any man who could not outrun her. The owner of this particular Bugatti is John Wendell Straus. Mr. Straus, 87, is a grandson of Isador Straus, who built R.H. Macy & Co. into a retail giant and who, with his wife, Ida, was among those lost on the Titanic in 1912. John W. Straus has loved cars since childhood. His first, at the age of 14, was a Ford Model T that he kept for many years. As a student at Harvard, he spent much of his free time looking for old cars abandoned in fields near the Cambridge campus. He joined the military in 1942, where, as a pilot in the Army Air Force with a fluency in French, he trained Free French airmen in Alabama. After the war he joined the family business; as a Macy’s vice president he was deeply involved in the Thanksgiving Day Parade and served as the store’s liaison to the production team of “Miracle on 34th Street” when it filmed in Manhattan. Mr. Straus often found himself at Zumbach Motors on West 54th Street, one of the first foreign car repair shops in New York and a gathering place for show business personalities like Paul Whiteman and Dave Garroway. It was there one day in the early 1950s that Straus saw a rakish black and yellow Bugatti. It was not just the car’s looks that convinced him he had to own it, but also the obvious care and craftsmanship that went into its construction. Fifty, Finned and Fabulous Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Forget the Lamborghini. He'd Rather Drive a V-8. COLLECTING; Authentic, or Expert Fake? Due Diligence May Tell Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1962-67 MGB Mk I Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/business/29bear.html?ex=1338091200&en=b9414849a3d98fa4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss After Build-A-Bear, Build-A-Toy-Car - Brough for Andreini, the entrepreneur behind Ridemakerz, shows off a custom toy car, among many models that customers could make. He is being backed by Maxine Clark, founder of Build-A-Bear. 2007 Lucky for one entrepreneur, the founder of the stuff-and-outfit your own plush animal phenomenon known as never got far on her idea to pursue a build-a-car concept. Skip to next paragraph Briana Brough for will open its first store this week in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Another is planned in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. Since 1997, when she opened the first Build-A-Bear workshop in St. Louis, that founder, Maxine Clark, has been besieged with people full of do-it-yourself ideas (make your own books and decorate your shoes, to name a couple.) A few years ago, Ms. Clark herself wrote up a build-a-car business plan, but said she was too busy with bears to do much else than put it on her to-do list. The bears are now available in 300 stores worldwide. In 2005, Larry Andreini, 44, an entrepreneur from Fairfax, Va., with a background in financial services and customer loyalty programs, came calling with a concept called Ridemakerz, a make-and-outfit your own toy car business. “He fit in with our culture,” Ms. Clark said in an interview. “He understood what it takes to bring a brand to reality.” She decided to collaborate with Mr. Andreini in the form of a $3 million investment and an estimated $15 million in back-office support from Build-A-Bear Workshop. The first Ridemakerz store is scheduled to open Friday at an entertainment and retail complex in Myrtle Beach, S.C., followed in July by an outpost at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. “Through the partnership we’re able to see every store performance of every Build-A-Bear,” Mr. Andreini said. “We have access to data that tells us the best place to open our shops.” Fathers and sons make up 70 percent of his target audience. Here’s what they can expect at the Ridemakerz store. Customers select a chassis type (street or monster); body styles (stock or custom, a Ridemakerz brand hot rod, a GT or Dodge Ram pickup, to name a few options); paint schemes; sound effects (for example, sirens or race sounds) and style of locomotion (free wheel or radio control). After the 10- to 12-inch cars are assembled, there are ample customizing and accessorizing options: tire treads, grille guards, side pipes, snowboard racks and decals. Mr. Andreini estimates that a fully tricked-out vehicle will run about $75, including $25 for radio control. For the budget-minded, there’s a stock tuner car for $12. Build-A-Bear has a 25 percent stake in Ridemakerz, a figure that will go up to 30 percent by January, though the companies will remain discrete entities. “There’s tremendous potential here because there’s nothing else for boys out there,” Ms. Clark said. While the do-it-yourself market “hasn’t exploded, it hasn’t faded,” said Sean McGowan, a toy industry analyst and managing director of the brokerage firm Wedbush Morgan. “Build-A-Bear continues to open 30 workshops a year and earns back almost all of its investment in a store in the first year,” he said, “and I can’t think of many other businesses that can say that.” Still, he questions whether there are “as many revenue opportunities” with cars as plush toys. “Hard plastic isn’t as inherently profitable as cloth,” he said, adding that “Ridemakerz has a reasonable shot.” Jim Silver, editor in chief of the magazine Toy Wishes, is more skeptical. “If you want to make a plush animal, there’s nowhere else to go but Build-A-Bear,” he said. “But there are a lot of model kits that let you make your own cars at home. Ridemakerz will be competing with them. “And with a car it’s how you play with it,” Mr. Silver continued. “It’s about the set and the tracks. Ridemakerz doesn’t offer that. Can they succeed? Yes. But it’s a higher mountain than Build-A-Bear had to climb.” &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Economix: Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Bumped Fliers and No Plan B In India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Not to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/business/29bear.html?ex=1338091200&en=b9414849a3d98fa4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss After Build-A-Bear, Build-A-Toy-Car Brough for Andreini, the entrepreneur behind Ridemakerz, shows off a custom toy car, among many models that customers could make. He is being backed by Maxine Clark, founder of Build-A-Bear. 2007 Lucky for one entrepreneur, the founder of the stuff-and-outfit your own plush animal phenomenon known as never got far on her idea to pursue a build-a-car concept. Brough for will open its first store this week in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Another is planned in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. Since 1997, when she opened the first Build-A-Bear workshop in St. Louis, that founder, Maxine Clark, has been besieged with people full of do-it-yourself ideas (make your own books and decorate your shoes, to name a couple.) A few years ago, Ms. Clark herself wrote up a build-a-car business plan, but said she was too busy with bears to do much else than put it on her to-do list. The bears are now available in 300 stores worldwide. In 2005, Larry Andreini, 44, an entrepreneur from Fairfax, Va., with a background in financial services and customer loyalty programs, came calling with a concept called Ridemakerz, a make-and-outfit your own toy car business. “He fit in with our culture,” Ms. Clark said in an interview. “He understood what it takes to bring a brand to reality.” She decided to collaborate with Mr. Andreini in the form of a $3 million investment and an estimated $15 million in back-office support from Build-A-Bear Workshop. The first Ridemakerz store is scheduled to open Friday at an entertainment and retail complex in Myrtle Beach, S.C., followed in July by an outpost at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. “Through the partnership we’re able to see every store performance of every Build-A-Bear,” Mr. Andreini said. “We have access to data that tells us the best place to open our shops.” Fathers and sons make up 70 percent of his target audience. Here’s what they can expect at the Ridemakerz store. Customers select a chassis type (street or monster); body styles (stock or custom, a Ridemakerz brand hot rod, a GT or Dodge Ram pickup, to name a few options); paint schemes; sound effects (for example, sirens or race sounds) and style of locomotion (free wheel or radio control). After the 10- to 12-inch cars are assembled, there are ample customizing and accessorizing options: tire treads, grille guards, side pipes, snowboard racks and decals. Mr. Andreini estimates that a fully tricked-out vehicle will run about $75, including $25 for radio control. For the budget-minded, there’s a stock tuner car for $12. Build-A-Bear has a 25 percent stake in Ridemakerz, a figure that will go up to 30 percent by January, though the companies will remain discrete entities. “There’s tremendous potential here because there’s nothing else for boys out there,” Ms. Clark said. While the do-it-yourself market “hasn’t exploded, it hasn’t faded,” said Sean McGowan, a toy industry analyst and managing director of the brokerage firm Wedbush Morgan. “Build-A-Bear continues to open 30 workshops a year and earns back almost all of its investment in a store in the first year,” he said, “and I can’t think of many other businesses that can say that.” Still, he questions whether there are “as many revenue opportunities” with cars as plush toys. “Hard plastic isn’t as inherently profitable as cloth,” he said, adding that “Ridemakerz has a reasonable shot.” Jim Silver, editor in chief of the magazine Toy Wishes, is more skeptical. “If you want to make a plush animal, there’s nowhere else to go but Build-A-Bear,” he said. “But there are a lot of model kits that let you make your own cars at home. Ridemakerz will be competing with them. “And with a car it’s how you play with it,” Mr. Silver continued. “It’s about the set and the tracks. Ridemakerz doesn’t offer that. Can they succeed? Yes. But it’s a higher mountain than Build-A-Bear had to climb.” &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Bumped Fliers and No Plan B Economix: India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/nyregion/29ink.html?ex=1338091200&en=eb3c5432c7633ddd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Turning Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope - Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope Earl Wilson/The grease is pumped to a truck that will take it to the North American Biofuels Company on Long Island. It will become diesel fuel. 2007 The back entrance to Barbounia, a restaurant on Park Avenue South, was open and Joseph Presswood dragged out a 55-gallon barrel of cooking oil. He plunged a vacuum hose into the grease as Edgar Rivera flipped on a switch. Thick brown liquid bubbled up through the hose to a container in a truck parked on 20th Street. Skip to next paragraph Earl Wilson/The Ross, a worker for RWA Natural Resource Recovery, picks up used cooking oil at restaurant. Earl Wilson/The Rivera, another RWA worker. After two minutes, all that was left at the bottom of the barrel was an errant appetizer plate, a rock and an uncooked squid that never made it onto a plate of fried calamari. “You can’t just throw grease away,” said Lester Ross, 42, their supervisor. Mr. Ross, Mr. Presswood and Mr. Rivera are employees of RWA Natural Resource Recovery, which is part of Doe Fund Inc.’s Ready, Willing and Able Community Improvement Project, an organization that employs homeless people, many of them former drug addicts or people who have been behind bars. RWA Natural Resource Recovery, a nonprofit group, collects grease from restaurants free and sells it to North American Biofuels Company, a plant in Bohemia, on Long Island, that converts it to diesel fuel. On this day, the men in green jumpsuits had already collected 360 gallons of grease from the ESPN Zone, a restaurant in Times Square. Despite the slippery grime, the stains and the heavy lifting, they all were grateful that they had jobs. Mr. Ross, a former heroin addict, was one of the first workers in the grease-recovery program, which was started in December. “This stuff is dirty,” said Mr. Ross, who earns $13 an hour; Mr. Rivera and Mr. Presswood each make $8 an hour. His face was drenched in sweat and his latex gloves were greasy, but he was content. “I like being a pioneer,” he said. Mr. Presswood, 41, who had been homeless and a cocaine addict, and Mr. Rivera, 40, who had come to the program from jail, seemed pleased to be earning money at a regular job. When the program began, it had three employees, who collected 997 gallons of grease in December. It has grown to six employees, who collected 14,435 gallons in April, said Jonathan Steiman, the project’s manager. There are 154 clients, but the list increases daily, he said. Instead of making the trip to the Long Island plant once a week, workers now make trips every three days or so. In the meantime, the grease is taken to a storage unit in Hunts Point in the Bronx, but is not kept there for long. “You don’t want the stuff sitting,” Mr. Steiman said. While a big part of the project is to recycle restaurant waste into something usable, the truck hauling the grease does not run on biodiesel fuel. With just one truck, the operation is too small to finance the cost of retrofitting the vehicle. Still, Mr. Ross predicted, “One day, we’ll be picking up grease all over the city.” York Region It Takes More Than Veggies to Make a Kitchen Green GREEN TECH; Restaurant Problem Becomes a Solution Starbucks Will Use Cups With 10% Recycled Paper URBAN TACTICS; Grease Is the Word Recycling of Waste Materials Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline York Region &#x00bb; De Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/nyregion/29ink.html?ex=1338091200&en=eb3c5432c7633ddd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Turning Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope Earl Wilson/The grease is pumped to a truck that will take it to the North American Biofuels Company on Long Island. It will become diesel fuel. 2007 The back entrance to Barbounia, a restaurant on Park Avenue South, was open and Joseph Presswood dragged out a 55-gallon barrel of cooking oil. He plunged a vacuum hose into the grease as Edgar Rivera flipped on a switch. Thick brown liquid bubbled up through the hose to a container in a truck parked on 20th Street. Wilson/The Ross, a worker for RWA Natural Resource Recovery, picks up used cooking oil at restaurant. Earl Wilson/The Rivera, another RWA worker. After two minutes, all that was left at the bottom of the barrel was an errant appetizer plate, a rock and an uncooked squid that never made it onto a plate of fried calamari. “You can’t just throw grease away,” said Lester Ross, 42, their supervisor. Mr. Ross, Mr. Presswood and Mr. Rivera are employees of RWA Natural Resource Recovery, which is part of Doe Fund Inc.’s Ready, Willing and Able Community Improvement Project, an organization that employs homeless people, many of them former drug addicts or people who have been behind bars. RWA Natural Resource Recovery, a nonprofit group, collects grease from restaurants free and sells it to North American Biofuels Company, a plant in Bohemia, on Long Island, that converts it to diesel fuel. On this day, the men in green jumpsuits had already collected 360 gallons of grease from the ESPN Zone, a restaurant in Times Square. Despite the slippery grime, the stains and the heavy lifting, they all were grateful that they had jobs. Mr. Ross, a former heroin addict, was one of the first workers in the grease-recovery program, which was started in December. “This stuff is dirty,” said Mr. Ross, who earns $13 an hour; Mr. Rivera and Mr. Presswood each make $8 an hour. His face was drenched in sweat and his latex gloves were greasy, but he was content. “I like being a pioneer,” he said. Mr. Presswood, 41, who had been homeless and a cocaine addict, and Mr. Rivera, 40, who had come to the program from jail, seemed pleased to be earning money at a regular job. When the program began, it had three employees, who collected 997 gallons of grease in December. It has grown to six employees, who collected 14,435 gallons in April, said Jonathan Steiman, the project’s manager. There are 154 clients, but the list increases daily, he said. Instead of making the trip to the Long Island plant once a week, workers now make trips every three days or so. In the meantime, the grease is taken to a storage unit in Hunts Point in the Bronx, but is not kept there for long. “You don’t want the stuff sitting,” Mr. Steiman said. While a big part of the project is to recycle restaurant waste into something usable, the truck hauling the grease does not run on biodiesel fuel. With just one truck, the operation is too small to finance the cost of retrofitting the vehicle. Still, Mr. Ross predicted, “One day, we’ll be picking up grease all over the city.” York Region It Takes More Than Veggies to Make a Kitchen Green GREEN TECH; Restaurant Problem Becomes a Solution Starbucks Will Use Cups With 10% Recycled Paper URBAN TACTICS; Grease Is the Word Recycling of Waste Materials Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline York Region &#x00bb; De Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Times delivery.
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/automobiles/index.html Buy, Sell or Research a New or Used Car – Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback This 1938 Bugatti Atalante, parked by John W. Straus in 1962, will be auctioned by Christie&#146;s on June 3 at the Greenwich Concours d&#146;&#201;l&#233;gance. Collectors are abuzz over a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé soon to come to auction. One of about 40 built, the Atalante has not moved from its garage space since 1962. Record Price for a Ferrari: $9.3 Million Slide Show: A Treasure in a Barn On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Thirty years after “Smokey and the Bandit” was released, about 200 fans retraced the route traveled in the movie. Audio Slide Show: Eastbound and Down The founder of the Build-A-Bear Workshop is backing a new concept called Ridemakerz, a make-and-outfit your own toy car business. Turning Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope A program started in December employs homeless people to collect grease for free from restaurants, and then sell it to a company that converts it to diesel fuel. Behind the Wheel | 2007 Nissan Altima The Pace Picks Up as Act 4 Begins The redesigned Altima gives Nissan a bit of needed sizzle in the crowded market for midsize, midprice front-wheel-drive sedans. Altima Coupe: Fewer Doors, More Drama Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd Slide Show: Comparing Midsize Sedans From a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies Chrysler’s designers have a lot to boast about, including the Chrysler 300 and the Dodge Charger, which combined American bravado with German solidity. And Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway Thousands of consumers are lining up to buy small cars, but they are not giving up their S.U.V.’s and pickups. Graphic: Small Cars Are Big Again Fifty, Finned and Fabulous The enduring popularity of Chevrolet’s 1957 cars has obscured the significance of vehicles offered by other manufacturers in that miraculous year. Audio Slide Show: New Models of 1957 Share and View Photo Gallery Photos of Your Collectible Car Your Car's Restoration History Other Member's Vehicle Photos and Descriptions Your Comments and Questions Be the First to Test-Drive This New Feature » : Searching for knowledgeable announcers in motorsports coverage. Commenting on the Commentators The Future of Hydrogen Seventy years after the Hindenberg disaster, the Times tested hydrogen vehicles from three manufacturers. Thirty years after “Smokey and the Bandit” was released, about 200 fans retraced the route traveled in the movie. Airstream: The Concept Travels Well Showing Off Cars With Real Curves Must-Sees at the New York Auto Show At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway A Two-Wheeled Option (With a Battery) for Commuters What Should a Chinese Car Look Like? Showing Off Cars With Real Curves Earnhardt and Team Penalized for Changes Formula One Rookie Performs Like a Veteran Systems to Prevent Rollovers to Be in All New Cars by 2012 It’s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Another Angle on the V-Twins A BMW to Ride When a Trip Is Long and Time Is Short Mayor Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet California Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules Behind the Wheel | 2008 Audi R8: Growling at the Exotics’ Door Motoring: How’s My Driving? Dial My License Plate Technology: Voice Recognition Closes In on HAL G.M.’s Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion Chrysler Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says G.M. May Sell a Unit Chen Village Journal: In China, It’s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls Auto Union Leader Finds Comfort Level A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground E-Commerce Report: Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Lincoln MKX: Beyond the Edge Acura MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... Wheelspin: In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing The Count: A Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Greentech: Where There’s Never an Oil Shortage Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Behind the Wheel | 2007 Toyota Tundra: Going Where Toyota’s Never Gone Before Behind the Wheel: Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Obama Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot Motoring: It’s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Hydrogen's Second Coming: A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Hydrogen's Second Coming: On the Road, Hope for a Zero-Pollution Car Hydrogen's Second Coming: At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway Hydrogen's Second Coming: In the Air, a Very Public Failure Land Rover’s Tadpole Turns Into a Prince Airstream: The Concept Travels Well A house for the road, the sleek silver Airstream has long intrigued Americans as an ideal combination of their twin loves, vehicle and home. Slide Show: Keeping the Shiny Side Up Body Language: How to Talk the Designers’ Talk Stand out among the automotive crowd by using the terms that the professionals do. For starters, never say dashboard. Interactive Graphic: Body Language File a Complaint With NHTSA Vehicle Ratings From IIHS Safety Statistics From IIHS A Special Section: Cars Apparently Americans are not clinging to their big trucks and S.U.V.'s until the last drop of oil dries up. Go to Special Section Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles Writer Don Sherman compares hydrogen-fueled vehicles from Ford, Toyota, General Motors, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Honda. Writer Keith Bradsher on the news, trends and the new models that were revealed at this year's show. Maserati's new 405-horsepower coupe was among many exotic cars on display at the New York Auto Show. Reviews, Dealer Price Quotes & Research Find a Dealer from our Local Marketplace. AUTO MUSEUMS IN THE WEST Here is a list of museums in California, where the car is king, and also in Arizona and New Mexico. Auto Museums in the Western U.S. & Canada Auto Museums in the Deep South Auto Museums in the South Ohio and Michigan Auto Museums New England Auto Museums NEW YORK ZONED DEALER SPOTLIGHT The Lowest Prices Yet! MOST POPULAR - AUTOMOBILES Collecting: A Sleeping Beauty Since &#8217;62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Wheelspin: On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Collecting: A Dream Weaver Threads Together the Best of 3 Classic Chevys Collecting: When Maps Reflected Romance of the Road Collecting: Fifty, Finned and Fabulous Behind the Wheel | 2008 Audi R8: Growling at the Exotics&#8217; Door Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. What Should a Chinese Car Look Like? Collecting: Muscle Cars Now Worth Millions Behind the Wheel | 2007 Nissan Altima: The Pace Picks Up as Act 4 Begins Car Insurance Service, Body Work Included The Dream That Once Was Detroit Woman Accused of Killing Companion With an S.U.V. million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new on Broadway? Get the latest business news What movie should you see? What’s new in technology? Photos, fine art, books and more.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/business/16auto.html?ex=1336968000&en=f50d88b169c93dbd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Auto Union Leader Finds Comfort Level - Union Leader Finds Comfort Level Jeff Kowalsky/European Pressphoto Agency Thomas W. LaSorda, Chrysler&#146;s chief, said he would keep using the services of a former Chrysler president. 2007 DETROIT, May 15 — Ron Gettelfinger, president of the union, is a man of few words, so it is never easy to be sure what he is thinking. Skip to next paragraph Ron Gettelfinger, the U.A.W. chief, at a news briefing Monday. That is especially true now because what little he has said about the sale of the Chrysler Group to Cerberus Capital Management, a private investment firm, has been contradictory. A month ago, he warned that a private buyer might “strip and flip” Chrysler for profit, ignoring the best interests of its unionized workers, whose job security and benefits he is trying to protect. But on Monday, Mr. Gettelfinger said the sale was the solution that best met his members’ needs. That sharp reversal might threaten the credibility of a different labor leader in a similarly delicate spot, analysts noted. But those who know Mr. Gettelfinger, 62, say his actions are more important than his words. What he has managed to do, by all accounts, is to strike a balance. He must appear strong to his members, whose ranks have been thinned by the crisis facing Detroit. But he also has to help the automakers get back on stable ground or risk further cutbacks at , Chrysler and the parts suppliers that the union represents. “There are no good options on the bargaining table now,” said Gary N. Chaison, professor of industrial relations at Clark University in Worcester, Mass. “There are only bad options and worse options.” said that its Chrysler division lost $1.98 billion in the first quarter, including revamping charges, in contrast to a profit of $857 million in the period a year earlier. (Daimler earned $2.67 billion in the first three months of the year, more than double its profit the year before.) The situation in Detroit arguably puts more pressure on Mr. Gettelfinger than any other U.A.W. president has faced since the early 1980s, when the union was forced to grant concessions to each of the auto companies in order to help save them. That could explain his testiness on Monday, when Mr. Gettelfinger appeared to run out of patience with journalists pushing him to explain why he now supported the sale when he had insisted that the union preferred to see Chrysler remain part of DaimlerChrysler. “O.K., I’m going to go over this one last time,” he said, interrupting a questioner. “The status quo was off the table. Cerberus was the only company that we discussed” with DaimlerChrysler’s chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, at a four-hour meeting in Stuttgart, Germany, on Saturday. Mr. Gettelfinger added, “The decision was made before we ever got there” that the meeting would focus only on the Cerberus bid. Given that, he said, the union saw little choice but to support it. But there appears to have been another reason for the reversal: the presence as a consultant to Cerberus of a former Chrysler president, Wolfgang Bernhard, people familiar with Mr. Gettelfinger’s thinking said Tuesday. Mr. Gettelfinger, who sits on the DaimlerChrysler supervisory board, got to know Mr. Bernhard before the executive left Chrysler for jobs at Mercedes-Benz and With Mr. Bernhard back on the scene, Mr. Gettelfinger felt confident that he had someone he could work with at Cerberus. Mr. Gettelfinger alluded to that Monday, without mentioning Mr. Bernhard by name. “There were a lot of things that we were concerned about,” the union leader said, “but based on everything that we heard, we were confident enough to say that we support this transaction.” Mr. Bernhard met Tuesday with the Chrysler chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, who said that Mr. Bernhard would serve as a “key adviser,” but not join Chrysler’s management. “I’ll use him when I need him,” Mr. LaSorda said. Mr. Gettelfinger met Tuesday with the chief executive of Cerberus, Stephen A. Feinberg, who spoke to Chrysler officials on Monday night and explained the private equity firm’s plans for the automaker. Personal connections count for a lot with Mr. Gettelfinger, whose first job was at Ford’s truck plant in Louisville, Ky., and whose voice has Southern traces. In public, his bearing can be reserved, although he is affectionate with his fellow union members, exchanging warm handshakes and manly hugs and greeting members as “brother” or “sister” in the union movement’s tradition. His courtliness is in sharp contrast to his sometimes profane predecessor, the late Stephen P. Yokich, who was known for his public jabs. Mr. Gettelfinger has more in common, in terms of operating style, with Owen Bieber, the union’s president from 1983 to 1995. The more formal bearing of those two men contrasted with the ebullient manner of Douglas A. Fraser, who ran the union more than a quarter-century ago. Mr. Fraser had been the only U.A.W. president since the end of World War II to make significant contract concessions until Mr. Gettelfinger, who agreed to landmark deals at G.M. and Ford in the last two years aimed at reducing health care costs. Mr. Gettelfinger has offered other forms of cooperation to the struggling car companies, although he might not like to see it characterized that way. Last year, he reached agreements with G.M., Ford and Chrysler to provide buyouts and other retirement incentives up to $140,000 to tens of thousands of workers. Many would have lost their jobs anyway because of cuts of nearly 70,000 positions announced by the companies, which are closing more than two dozen factories in the next few years. Because of those deals, the union has not fought the plant-closing decisions, which at an earlier time might have prompted strikes in an effort to keep them open. Mr. Gettelfinger has managed to protect wages and benefits at the auto parts maker , which had demanded deep cuts under bankruptcy protection. Workers there are still earning the $28 an hour in wages and receiving the same pensions and health care benefits they got before the company filed for Chapter 11 status. With contract talks now two months away, it looks unlikely that Delphi workers will give up anything before the union and the automakers sit down to discuss a new national agreement. Those talks are shaping up as less of a showdown than a forum that will allow Mr. Gettelfinger and the companies to forge a path that will take them through the next phase of the industry’s wrenching overhaul. “You have to adapt to the playing field that you’re on, not the playing field that you wish to be on,” said David Gregory, a labor law expert at ANALYSIS; In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Chief Warns Automakers That U.A.W. Won't Budge on Health Care or Jobs Bank Auto Union Head Vows Hard Line Against Concessions DETROIT'S SLUMP COULD BREAK UP CHRYSLER GROUP &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear Google Keeps Tweaking Its Search Engine Your Money: The 6 Percent Solution: Skip Real Estate Agents Advertising: Publishers Creating Their Own In-House Ad Agencies Career Couch: For the Chronically Late, It&#8217;s Not a Power Trip Everybody Talks About the Weather; All of a Sudden, It&#8217;s Controversial Ping: Genius and Misfit Aren&#8217;t Synonyms, or Are They? A Theme Song for Clinton: &#8216;I&#8217;m a Believer&#8217; vs. &#8216;Cold as Ice&#8217; A Hot-Selling Weapon, an Inviting Target Your Money: Advice to All You Graduates: Let&#39;s Start With That Daily Latte . . . Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Dow Jones Says It Will Consider Options for Sale Grandma Cooks, They Deliver How the Bancrofts Decided to Talk With Murdoch Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Overbooking, Bumped Fliers and No Plan B the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/15/automobiles/15TRAILER.html Airstream: The Concept Travels Well - The Concept Travels Well The classic Airstream trailer still appeals to a nation of rolling stones. 15, 2007 AS if abandoned by a misdirected camper who parked in the dark, a silver Airstream trailer sits these days in the lobby of the Museum of Modern Art. A model called the Bambi, designed in 1960 with Airstream&#8217;s distinctive streamlined riveted skin, has been acquired for the museum&#8217;s design collection. Skip to next paragraph Keeping The Shiny Side Up The first Airstream, the Clipper, arrived in 1936 amid a national craze for streamlining &#151; in cars, in buildings, in toasters &#151; as the brainchild of an inventor and travel promoter named Wally Byam. After World War II, as the highway system expanded, the economy boomed and Airstreams gained starring roles in Hollywood films, the trailer came to symbolize American-style travel. Airstream&#8217;s appeal seems to have few limits, and indeed a powerful world traveler recently provided proof of its persistent appeal. On a trip to Asia in February, Vice President traveled in an Airstream &#151; inside an airplane. Mark Silva, chief of the Washington bureau of The Chicago Tribune, accompanied the vice president as the press corps&#8217; pool print reporter. The group flew on a huge gray C-17 cargo plane that the Air Force calls the Spirit of , in honor of the late senator. Mr. Silva said that when he boarded he noted the familiar outline of the Airstream roof inside the vast fuselage. &#8220;I crawled on the floor to look at the nameplate,&#8221; Mr. Silva said, confirming that it read &#8220;Airstream, Jackson Center, Ohio.&#8221; Inside, Mr. Silva said in an interview, &#8220;there were plush leather chairs, blue-gray carpet, wood paneling, recessed lighting and a TV and DVD player.&#8221; He said the Airstream reminded him of one of the first he had seen, on the cover of a Ry Cooder record album from 1970. &#8220;The Airstream is the symbol of taking it on the road with style,&#8221; he added. A home for the road, the Airstream has long intrigued Americans as an ideal combination of their twin loves, vehicle and home. Its functionalism also let it be read as a symbol of the ideals of modern architecture. Christian Larsen, a curatorial assistant in &#8217;s department of architecture and design, said, &#8220;The Bambi is a machine for living and traveling, the sort of industrialized, rationalized vessel that had long been the dream object of modernist architects, from Le Corbusier to Buckminster Fuller.&#8221; Mr. Larsen also related the Airstream to the work of artists like Andrea Zittel, who builds trailerlike works, installed in galleries or outdoor installations. In recent years, the Airstream has attracted the attention of automakers, too. Nissan Design America, the California studio of the Japanese automaker, produced an Airstream trailer concept displayed at auto shows after its introduction at the New York International Contemporary Furniture Fair in 2003. Bryan Thompson, one of the designers, said Nissan&#8217;s work with Airstream led to the BaseCamp, a $20,000 trailer with a pop-up Kelty tent. The BaseCamp, which is now sold by Airstream, is light enough to be towed by the average car. &#8220;Airstream is one of those companies that is part of the heart and soul of American design,&#8221; Mr. Thompson said. &#8220;The shape is timeless, the materials are modern and the fabrication is hands-on traditional. They have the ability to combine Old World handmade craftsmanship with cutting-edge technology.&#8221; More recently, Airstream, which is based in Jackson Center, Ohio, and now owned by Thor Industries, has collaborated with Ford. The automaker&#8217;s Airstream design study, a crossover wagon theoretically powered by hydrogen fuel cells, was unveiled in Detroit in January and has been on display at the New York auto show, which closes today. The alliance grew out of a high-concept future study ordered by J Mays, the group vice president for design at Ford, to explore the American journey. The result was a concept vehicle of gleaming aluminum and orange window frames aimed at the growing number of baby boomers who are 55 and older &#151; a group that has historically accounted for a large percentage of trailer buyers. &#8220;The Ford Airstream concept captures the sense of optimism and adventure conveyed in American aircraft, spacecraft and the streamlined shape of Airstream trailers,&#8221; Mr. Mays said. The Ford concept realizes Wally Byam&#8217;s dream of eventually making the Airstream a self-propelled land yacht. (He foresaw a motorized portion that would detach from the mothership, like a dinghy.) It recalls the VW Microbus, and for that matter the Stout Scarab, a 1935 precursor to the minivan. Inside, the Ford concept car shifts its frame of reference to more distant travel. The materials and colors &#151; called &#8220;cosmic red and white&#8221; &#151; were inspired by the spacecraft in the 1968 film &#8220;2001: A Space Odyssey.&#8221; Space buffs will recall another connection between space travel and Airstream. In 1969, upon their return from the moon, the Apollo 11 astronauts were quartered inside a modified Airstream called the mobile quarantine facility. They remained in the silver pod for three weeks; President visited and waved at the astronauts through the window. New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky The PRESIDENTS Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/27BANDIT.html?ex=1337918400&en=3af52195687ea987&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) - This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Making time on the Bandit Run. 2007 Skip to next paragraph TODAY is the 30th anniversary of the release of the movie “Smokey and the Bandit,” a Burt Reynolds romp that the actor once described as “a little like eating Chinese food — about an hour after you see the movie, you may want to go see another one.” But for many people, the real star of the movie was the car he drove: a 1977 black Trans Am with gold striping and a “thunder chicken” graphic on the hood. With plenty of Hollywood stunts and trick driving, the Trans Am left an impression. To commemorate the anniversary of the movie, a driving event called the Bandit Run 2007 was held from May 15 to May 17, with about 200 participants in 85 cars traveling the 660 miles from Texarkana, Tex., to Atlanta, the route traveled in the movie. The event was open to anyone; owning a Trans Am was not required. The movie is about a trucker, nicknamed Snowman and played by Jerry Reed, and his decoy and lookout man, Bandit, played by Mr. Reynolds, who agree to transport 400 cases of Coors beer from Texarkana to Atlanta. It is Bandit’s job to occupy the police — nicknamed Smokey — so the tractor-trailer of beer can make it to Atlanta without being discovered. Thirty years ago, Coors beer was not sold in states east of the Mississippi River. In the south, Texas was the cut-off line. The idea for the Bandit Run was a collaboration of David Hershey of Keller, Tex., and Dave Hall, the owner of Restore a Muscle Car, a restoration shop in Lincoln, Neb., who said they thought it would be fun to recreate the road trip from the movie on its 30th anniversary. Mr. Hall’s shop had restored Mr. Hershey’s 1977 black Pontiac Trans Am SE, or special edition, which replicated the paint scheme of the Trans Am used in the movie. Mr. Hall and Mr. Hershey promoted the event on Motortopia, a motor enthusiast’s Web site. More than 300 joined the Bandit Run group, many posting photos and videos of their cars. Bandit Run participants came to Texarkana from all over the United States. I wanted to attend, but I also wanted to arrive in the right car, so on April 20 I bought a black 1979 Trans Am with almost 100,000 miles for about $10,000 at a collector-car auction in Branson, Mo. I had always wanted a black Trans Am and this was my excuse to finally fulfill my dream. I bought one like the car in the movie. Jim Cox, who, along with his wife, Kathy, owns the collector-car auction, found a mechanic to prepare the car for the trip. The air-conditioning was repaired, new front springs were installed, and the tires, brakes and shocks were inspected, adjusted and, in some cases, replaced. The foam was also replaced on the two front seats. The Bandit Run group gathered with their cars May 15 at the Tex-Ark Antique Auto Museum. The mayors of Texarkana, Tex., and Texarkana, Ark., welcomed us. Pontiac Firebird Trans Ams from most model years were among the 25 or so cars there for the start. More cars, including many Trans Ams, dropped in and out of the run along the route. Talking with the participants, one theme appeared continually: most were fascinated by the car in the movie and most first saw “Smokey and the Bandit” when they were much younger. Jed Morgan of Call, Tex., said he was “born in 1977, the same year as the movie.” “I watched the movie likely since I was 3,” he said. Mr. Morgan, 29, a nursing student, was traveling with his brother, R.J., 18, in a black 1977 Trans Am. Jed Morgan bought his car last year on eBay and is already devoted to it. “I’ve already made arrangements that my brother will drive it in my funeral procession, if he survives me,” Jed Morgan said. “It will be in front of the hearse.” We left Texarkana on that Tuesday morning with a police escort. In many of the small towns we drove through, police cars had pulled over with officers standing beside their cars like an informal honor guard. Most officers waved as we passed. The first leg of our journey, and the longest drive, was on the first day. The 382 miles from Texarkana to Tupelo, Miss., was mostly on rural two-lane roads. We had good weather for most of the trip, with the exception of a cloudburst that happily coincided with a lunch stop. REVIEW; Kiss Kiss, Vroom Vroom:They Were Born to Drive FILM REVIEW; Back to the Double Feature Film in Review; Tales of the Rat Fink Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Elizabeth Taylor - 1985 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/autoreviews/13BLOCK.html?ex=1336708800&en=d217d80ebce62267&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - Lincoln MKX - Test Drive - MKX: Beyond the Edge Ford&#146;s American luxury division finally gets a crossover wagon. 2007 WHILE Cadillac has staged a respectable revival of late, times are still tough for Lincoln, the other venerable American luxury line. Skip to next paragraph The X Files: Four Luxury Crossovers Lincoln had its last bona fide hit, the Navigator sport utility, nearly a decade ago. In the years since, it has posted a lineup that could confirm the existence of chaos theory. The bizarre Blackwood pickup for 2002 was dead on arrival — appropriate, since it came only in black and featured what appeared to be a powered coffin lid over a carpeted bed. Failing to take the hint, Lincoln brought out another luxury pickup, the Mark LT, which has also underperformed in the showroom. On the sport utility front, Lincoln cobbled together the Aviator for 2002. It was basically a Ford Explorer with a deluxe interior, but at a price above $45,000, few left the hangar. Beyond its price, the Aviator’s failing — and Lincoln’s, too — was to miss the crossover wave. Models like the Lexus RX, now the perennial top seller among luxury sport utilities, were really cars underneath. By and large, Americans have discovered in recent years that they prefer crossovers to truck-centric models like the Aviator. Better late than never, Lincoln now paddles in with its first crossover: the MKX, not to be confused with Acura’s competing MDX — or with Lincoln’s own MKZ, a sedan formerly known as the Zephyr, or its yet-to-come MKS. (Chaos also rules the Lincoln’s naming department.) Based on the Ford Edge and Mazda CX-9, the five-passenger MKX is vastly more flightworthy than the Aviator. It is competent and quite striking. It starts at $36,445 including optional all-wheel drive, far less than other luxury models of its size: about $3,000 below the Lexus RX 350, about $4,000 less than the Acura, about $7,000 below a Mercedes ML350. But let’s be honest. The MKX may impress price shoppers and Lincoln loyalists, or people who remember where they were when Barry Goldwater got the Republican nomination. But it is less likely to impress people who have forged lasting relationships with rich foreigners, like the sport wagons from Lexus, Mercedes and BMW. No doubt, the Lincoln wins some style points: The MKX has an aerodynamic shape that even the Jetsons might like, and a wall-to-wall chrome grille that adds some visual sizzle. It’s a handsome ride. The interior is reasonably comfortable, though the front seats were handicapped by a short, hard bottom cushion. A central touch screen smoothly controls the audio system, navigation unit and other functions. (Lincoln could teach BMW and Mercedes a thing or two about user-friendly electronics.) An enormous sunroof is part of a $4,795 package that includes the navigation system, satellite radio and THX audio system. The MKX’s sharply angled windshield resulted in distracting reflections from vents atop the dashboard. But the gauges may be the biggest faux pas; did anyone at Lincoln notice how cheap they look? They’re penciled in a wispy, almost girlish font that recalls a J. C. Penney circular. The Lincoln’s neatest feature may be the dual buttons in the hatch area that drop the split 60-40 rear seats flat in a one-finger operation. There is useful storage back there, though the stylishly sloping roof reduces the ultimate capacity: both the Acura and Lexus have about 20 percent more space with the rear seats folded. On the road, the MKX is smooth, solid and quiet. But it drives like, well, a nice minivan, and I’d wager that a Honda Odyssey could beat it around a road course. Of course, the MKX is a prettified Ford Edge, and like that crossover wagon it feels rather large and unwieldy. Compared with the Ford, the Lincoln’s suspension is biased toward a comfortable ride, so it is tuned like a baby’s mashed potatoes: soft, messy and poorly controlled. The steering traces the right path, but the feel is vague and muffled. The 3.5-liter V-6, the new go-to engine for multiple Ford models, puts out a healthy 265 horsepower and 250 pound-feet of maximum torque. The six-speed automatic transmission is decently smooth, though the lack of manual-shift ability is another clue to the Lincoln’s easy-cruising intentions. The MKX also tips the scales at 4,420 pounds, one reason for a somewhat leisurely 8.1-second run from a standstill to 60 m.p.h. Yet despite the mass, the federal fuel economy rating is an impressive 17 miles a gallon in town, 24 on the highway, with all-wheel drive. (Front-drive models are rated 1 m.p.g. higher in town and country.) Braking is less impressive, though, as proved in testing by Car and Driver. The magazine recorded a 197-foot stop from 70 m.p.h., near the bottom in the class. The Lincoln weighs about 100 pounds less than the longer, wider Acura, and 300 less than a Mercedes M-Class. But the Acura, with its terrific suspension and performance-tuned all-wheel-drive system, feels like a nimble sport sedan in comparison — without any tradeoffs in ride or roominess. The Acura isn’t the only one: a homegrown rival, the Cadillac SRX, pioneered an adaptive magnetically controlled suspension that has been adopted by super sports cars like the Chevrolet Corvette, Ferrari 599 GTB and Audi R8. As you might expect, the Cadillac outhandles the Lincoln. In the MKX’s defense, the Lexus RX is no barn burner, either. And again, the Lincoln undercuts the competition: stuffed with options, my test car checked in at $43,890. Skeptics will note that the Lincoln’s stablemate, the Ford Edge, has a base price about $8,800 lower. They may well dismiss the Lincoln as an overpriced Ford. But people who love the Lincoln’s looks, and value smoothness over sport, may prefer to call the MKX a bargain Lexus. Briefing | Recalls: An Alert For Agent Cool Blue Toyota Deepens Discounts on Its New Pickup With Top-Selling Silverado, G.M. Sales Defied Trend and Rose for Month BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Ford Edge; More Weighty Than Edgy Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/automobiles/03INTRO.html Books Worth a Spot on a Car Buff&#8217;s Shelf - Worth a Spot on a Car Buff’s Shelf 3, 2007 In any field, there are certain books that are essential. Some are handy references, others provide the perspective of history and still others are simply good reads. Skip to next paragraph Post a Comment: What Automotive Books Are Must-Reads? Here is a selection of books that will make a fine foundation for an automotive library. All are widely available either new or used. By Beverly Rae Kimes Illustrated. 720 pages. Classic Car Club of America, 2001. The author presents a detailed year-by-year rundown of the American and European auto industry from 1925 through 1948, but don’t expect any mention of plebeian Chevrolets, Fords or Dodges. As the title implies, this is a chronicle of the kings (and princes) of the road — the higher-priced brands like Stutz, Cord, Auburn and Rolls-Royce (particularly the cars from the American factory in Springfield, Mass.). Each chapter is a thorough almanac of the year’s activities, including executive shuffling; a necrology of the marques that went under; and the latest engineering breakthroughs. Ms. Kimes is a facile writer, so the wheels never become mired. Besides, there are plenty of photos to linger over. Not that there is any reason to hurry to the end of this book: we all know who’s left standing, for example, in the Packard-Cadillac showdown. And the palette of body colors forced a buyer to choose among whimsically named shades like Fenimore and Laurel (two greens) or Yedaz (tan). Even then, luxury had its price. The Kings of the Road By Ken W. Purdy A few black-and-white photographs. 256 pages. Little, Brown & Company, 1952. Few car books bear rereading. For marque histories and learned studies, a single pass usually suffices before they are shelved for reference, while coffee-table tomes often have text so thin they’re better left unread. An exception to the rule is Ken W. Purdy’s “Kings of the Road,” from 1952. In print for an amazing 17 years, it served as early education for more than a generation of enthusiasts, and it still delights today. The book covers the usual prewar icons — Bugatti, Rolls-Royce, Mercedes-Benz and Duesenberg — as well as Mr. Purdy’s favorite Mercer Raceabout. Le Mans, the Indianapolis 500 and the Vanderbilt Cup races rate chapters, as does “The Flying Mantuan,” the great driver Tazio Nuvolari. A chapter on front-wheel drive puts a little-known pioneer, J. Walter Christie, on an equal footing with E. L. Cord and André Citroën; the Stanley twins share the spotlight in the chapter on steam cars. This is not a definitive history, and it has its share of errors, though many of them were conventional wisdom at publication. The author’s style is plain, yet pithy. The owner of a Bugatti “becomes its willing slave for life,” and the Mercer’s attraction “derives from its starkness.” Copies of the book are plentiful on the used market, often inexpensive and much more satisfying than a retreaded Porsche potboiler. Speed! Lust! Madness! Death! A Hot Lap Around America With Nascar By Jeff MacGregor. Photographs by Olya Evanitsky. 370 pages. HarperCollins, 2005. Early in 2002, as the wounds of 9/11 still throbbed, Jeff MacGregor packed a motor home and pointed it toward Florida. For 40 weeks and 48,000 miles he and his wife, Olya Evanitsky, crisscrossed the nation, caroming from raceway to raceway, immersing themselves in all things , the ruling body of a sport that “distills to an essence America’s obsession with speed and sex and death,” he writes. Along the way, the author roared around a track at Nascar fantasy camp, watched tough men weep for Dale Earnhardt and listened as , the California prodigy whom good ol’ boys love to hate, was “booed not just ecstatically, but spectacularly.” Wry, witty and clear-eyed, Mr. MacGregor recounts enough lore, and explodes enough myths, to keep racing followers in thrall. But his engaging book is also a primer for those who aren’t among the 75 million who worship at the First Church of Nascar. While chasing the drivers who are chasing the championship, Mr. MacGregor explores the paradoxes. Though the sport is packaged in “the appearance of solid Christian rectitude,” the teams all cheat, young groupies called “pit lizards” tempt like the devil, and entire sections of fans can be as boorish as they are intoxicated. Once “Sunday money” was a few bucks of winnings to cover expenses; today there’s a $2.4 billion television contract and untold millions in sponsorships. Nascar is big, big business. Mr. MacGregor analyzes the promoters’ grandiose math and finds that the numbers don’t quite compute. But Nascar’s amazing ability to sell itself is part of the story, too. “Maybe the reason that Nascar seems so spectacularly successful,” he muses, “is that Nascar keeps telling you it is.” Road & Track Illustrated Automotive Dictionary 250 pages. Bentley Publishers. $19.95 For many people, automotive mechanics will always be one of the everlasting mysteries of life. Trips to the dealership for service or even combing through car reviews seem to entail a certain amount of technical decoding, which inevitably leads to head-scratching and frustration. The staff of Road & Track magazine had these laypeople in mind when it came up with its original Illustrated Automotive Dictionary in 1977. Since then, there have been all sorts of breakthroughs in automotive technology, from antilock brakes to drive-by-wire throttles to the continuously variable transmission. A few years ago, John Dinkel, who was Road & Track’s editor in chief at the time of the original publication, updated the dictionary to include these advances. The latest edition contains more than 1,300 definitions and 435 black-and-white photographs and illustrations. The latest edition arrived in 2000, just before the recent boom in environmental awareness, and there is a huge gap in the dictionary regarding alternative fuels. Ethanol made the cut, but other newfound catchwords, like biodiesel, hybrid and hydrogen fuel cell, didn’t. Standard Catalog of American Cars Various editors and contributors. LAND; Taking Books Far and Wide, on the Road Less Traveled By You Say Tom Robbins, I Say Tom Clancy BOOKS OF THE TIMES; An Impala's-Eye View of Highway History Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Fifth Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/14/technology/14ecom.html?ex=1336795200&en=0e6d3555d7a809b0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices - Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Stephen Chernin for The Renner, chief executive of DriverTV, taking a break at an exit from the West Side Highway in Manhattan. 2007 ONE of the most dreaded buying decisions is becoming still tougher. Auto manufacturers now sell about 280 different cars in the United States, up from 208 at the start of the decade. In five years that number is expected by market researchers to reach 340. The Internet’s solution to this problem sounds suspiciously like its answer to everything else these days: more video. But in this case, analysts said, it could help buyers, carmakers and automotive Web sites — at least in the short term. More than 70 percent of car buyers do some research online before making a purchase. The site that is putting the finest point on the idea of online research is , which will makes it official debut today after several months in test mode. Based in New York and Los Angeles, the site features high-definition video clips of new-car models, with each video following a uniform script. A roughly three-minute video of a $175,000 Lamborghini Gallardo, for example, shows the car from the same angles as a clip featuring a $15,000 Chevrolet Aveo. As a narrator describes the features, interior and exterior shots are coupled with footage of the car driving along a stretch of road in Southern California. The site’s parent, DriverTV, began late in 2005 as a video-on-demand offering for cable television companies. But according to Jan Renner, DriverTV’s chief executive, the Web is a better home for the content. Because many cable companies transmit high-definition programs judiciously as a result of the costs of bandwidth, DriverTV’s high-definition content has not been widely distributed to living rooms and its videos look sharper online than on television. And unlike cable TV subscribers, Internet users need not jump through hoops to get the service. Even though DriverTV clips cost nothing on cable, subscribers must pay extra for video-on-demand service. Mr. Renner said that given the pace at which viewers are visiting DriverTV.com, he expects the site to reach more than a million monthly visitors within a year. (DriverTV has about 700,000 monthly cable viewers.) To generate cash, the site surrounds videos with ads from and Chevrolet, among other carmakers. The video initiative is not cheap. Radical Media, a maker of commercials and feature films, produces the clips and owns a partial stake in DriverTV. But Mr. Renner said the cost was increasingly necessary to attract car buyers and advertisers. “This is just an easier way to digest data,” he said. “The average consumer spends five hours online shopping for a car, and a lot of the other car sites have become cumbersome and data-centric. We think there’s an opening on the market for a place where customers can see and get a feel for the car, in a simple format.” Indeed, according to George Peterson, president of Auto Pacific, a marketing research firm based in Tustin, Calif., the videos help provide an answer to what is, for many potential buyers, the most important question: how would it look on me? “People may not even listen to the voice-over for the videos,” Mr. Peterson said, adding, “They might be interested in looking at the specs of the car, then the price, and then maybe other cars in its class.” Auto executives said most of the sites that now serve prospective car buyers, like Edmunds.com, and Kelley Blue Book’s , had been slow to invest substantially in video until now, in part because they have enjoyed financial success with their text-heavy approaches, while such investments would bring uncertain returns. Curt Hecht, chief digital officer of GM Planworks, a unit of the Media- vest Group dealing with media planning, said: “It’s in our interest to help folks like DriverTV change the game a little bit. These other sites could have bigger imaginations, quite frankly.” Some automotive sites, like , are already leading off a visitor’s experience with video. The site, which is privately held and based in Salt Lake City, devotes the top of the home page to its Vehix TV initiative, that among other things, features a new set of video buying guides produced with the auto research firm J. D. Power & Associates. A spokesman, Kerry Lehtinen, said Vehix TV was started two years ago. “It’s been very popular,” Mr. Lehtinen said. “It extends the amount of time people spend on the site, and it’s getting people further down the purchase funnel. The more information they have, the more ready they are to buy.” Other sites have approached video in fits and starts. Edmunds.com, for instance, last year began producing “interactive vehicle tours” for new cars, but stopped that effort after “studying our site visitors’ behavior and taking into account their feedback,” a spokeswoman, Jeannine Fallon, said. Ms. Fallon would not offer details about the users’ reaction to the Edmunds videos, but she said the site was now working on a new approach to multimedia car profiles. David Pryor, vice president for marketing of Porsche Cars North America, said video was especially important for luxury brands like his. “The traditional ‘just the facts, ma’am’ approach on the Internet hasn’t been the best for us because we’re an aspirational brand,” he said. “We’re selling the dream.” Porsche has tripled its online advertising budget in the last three years to reach the “seven-figure range,” Mr. Pryor said. And as more sites adopt a video-focused philosophy, he said, his online spending would accelerate. While that approach might help sell more cars, it could lead to less-satisfied customers in the long term, according to Barry Schwartz, a psychology professor at Swarthmore College and the author of “The Paradox of Choice.” When consumers are faced with a large set of options, Mr. Schwartz said, they often simplify their decisions so much that they make poor choices. “In this case, they’re likely to just choose a car by its looks,” he said. A better approach, Mr. Schwartz said, would be to offer users the ability to quickly winnow the possible choices, based on important features like size, reliability and mileage, then offer video overviews. Otherwise, he said, “these sites shouldn’t delude themselves into thinking they’re doing a favor to the customer.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles OFFLINE; When Failure Is a Good Thing High Court Puts Limits On Patents TECHNOLOGY; Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 The Sales Pitch, Minus Salesmen Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Video) &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - TECHNOLOGY Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) E-Commerce Report: Listing Top Jobs but Charging Candidates to Seek Them Harvard Is Licensing More Than 50 Patents to a Nanotechnology Start-Up For Pornographers, Internet&#8217;s Virtues Turn to Vices Palm Is Said to Sell Stake to Equity Firm in Revamping Specialized Software Maker Is Said to Be in Buyout Talks Google Zooms In Too Close for Some Basics: Where&#8217;s the Other Half of Your Music File? A 12-Megapixel Camera That Doesn&#8217;t Mind Working in Low Light Comedy Business Turns to the Web Camera Phone? Yahoo and Reuters Want You to Work for Their News Service The Future of Web Ads Is in Britain Red Web Sites Versus Blue Web Sites the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/collectibles/27BARN.html?ex=1337918400&en=edd8758cacc893ef&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Sleeping Beauty Since &#8217;62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback - Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback This 1938 Bugatti Atalante, parked by John W. Straus in 1962, will be auctioned by Christie&#146;s on June 3 at the Greenwich Concours d&#146;&#201;l&#233;gance. 2007 AMONG serious collectors, there are few mysteries; with only occasional exceptions, cars of particular significance have all been deeply researched and their histories well-documented. A Duesenberg or Ferrari expert knows when an important example will be coming to auction and can typically recite its ownership history in numbing detail, referring to the car not by something as vague as a model name but by its exact chassis number. Skip to next paragraph A Treasure in a Barn That is why the grapevine of the collector market buzzes when a rare car re-emerges after being out of sight for many years. Such is the case — and the source of anticipation — surrounding the French grand touring car from 1938, a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé. One of about 40 built, the Atalante is the last design of a talented young man before his early death, and one of the most daring shapes of its time. Adding to its mystique, the car, owned by a member of one of New York’s most prominent families, had not seen the light of day since 1962, when it was last registered for the road. The Atalante has not moved from its garage space — it is now sandwiched between a old Farmall tractor and a 1949 Jaguar Mark V sedan — in a New York City suburb since then. It will be auctioned on June 3 by Christie’s at the Greenwich Concours d’Élégance, at Roger Sherman Baldwin Park in Greenwich, Conn. Christie’s estimates that the car will sell for $300,000 to $400,000. While noncollectors might be shocked by that price for a car in this state of neglect, its as-found condition adds charm for many would-be Bugatti owners. Many vintage cars, even from the grandest marques, have suffered untold indignities, but this Atalante is remarkably original — with little more than small repairs at the rear and the addition of bumpers — and it has never sustained the harm of a botched restoration. Its value is related to Bugatti’s status as one of the most revered names in automotive history, memorable enough for the Volkswagen Group to revive the brand in recent years for a series of ultraexpensive sports cars. The founder of the company, Ettore Bugatti, built his first car in 1899 and gave them his name in 1910, when he established his company in the Alsace region, then under German control. Bugatti soon became known for superbly engineered racecars, one of which won the first Monaco Grand Prix in 1929. To finance the racing, the company built powerful cars for wealthy enthusiasts, a business model later adopted by Enzo Ferrari. Ettore’s son, Jean, grew up in the business and established himself as an imaginative and talented automotive engineer and designer. Jean, who died in 1939 while testing a racecar, designed the bodies for the Type 57 models. Of the 710 Type 57s built, about 40 carried the sleek two-door coupé body named Atalante, after the quick-footed young woman of Greek mythology who would not marry any man who could not outrun her. The owner of this particular Bugatti is John Wendell Straus. Mr. Straus, 87, is a grandson of Isador Straus, who built R.H. Macy & Co. into a retail giant and who, with his wife, Ida, was among those lost on the Titanic in 1912. John W. Straus has loved cars since childhood. His first, at the age of 14, was a Ford Model T that he kept for many years. As a student at Harvard, he spent much of his free time looking for old cars abandoned in fields near the Cambridge campus. He joined the military in 1942, where, as a pilot in the Army Air Force with a fluency in French, he trained Free French airmen in Alabama. After the war he joined the family business; as a Macy’s vice president he was deeply involved in the Thanksgiving Day Parade and served as the store’s liaison to the production team of “Miracle on 34th Street” when it filmed in Manhattan. Mr. Straus often found himself at Zumbach Motors on West 54th Street, one of the first foreign car repair shops in New York and a gathering place for show business personalities like Paul Whiteman and Dave Garroway. It was there one day in the early 1950s that Straus saw a rakish black and yellow Bugatti. It was not just the car’s looks that convinced him he had to own it, but also the obvious care and craftsmanship that went into its construction. Fifty, Finned and Fabulous Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Forget the Lamborghini. He'd Rather Drive a V-8. COLLECTING; Authentic, or Expert Fake? Due Diligence May Tell Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1963-67 Chevrolet Corvette Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/17/business/17gm.html G.M. May Sell a Unit - May Sell a Unit 2007 may sell its midsize truck business as it focuses on making profits from cars and light trucks. &#8220;We are considering options for our medium-duty truck business to better position the unit for growth,&#8221; a spokeswoman, Melisa Tezanos, said yesterday. She would not comment on potential buyers. The unit last year built 40,800 Chevrolet Kodiak, GMC TopKick and Isuzu T-Series models, for use as dump trucks and delivery vehicles. The Flint Journal in Michigan reported this week that might be interested in a deal for the unit. A spokesman for Navistar, Roy Wiley, declined to comment. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. G.M. Turnaround Gains Little Traction A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot High Court Puts Limits On Patents &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: CLASSICAL MUSIC Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/17/business/worldbusiness/17daimler.html?ex=1337054400&en=9d56e7bdc1ac320a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Chrysler Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says - Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says 2007 STUTTGART, Germany, May 16 &#151; On Monday evening at Chrysler&#8217;s offices in Auburn Hills, Mich., Dieter Zetsche held what is likely to be his last, and most poignant, session of &#8220;Ask Dr. Z.&#8221; Skip to next paragraph Dieter Zetsche, the chief executive of DaimlerChrysler, said the decision to sell Chrysler was &#147;emotionally a very tough process for me.&#148; Mr. Zetsche, the chief executive of , became famous last summer as that affable German fellow with a walrus mustache, who answered questions about cars on a Chrysler Web site. Now, the real Dr. Z was fielding questions from 250 senior managers about why DaimlerChrysler had decided to sell Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management, a New York-based private equity firm. He argued that Cerberus, with its financial skills and huge investment in Chrysler, plus a continued minority shareholding by Daimler offered the &#8220;best possible future setup for Chrysler.&#8221; Back at DaimlerChrysler&#8217;s headquarters here, Mr. Zetsche said in an interview on Wednesday that the decision to sell the company, which he led from 2000 to 2005, was &#8220;emotionally a very tough process for me.&#8221; But by last fall, when Chrysler&#8217;s sales deteriorated and the carmaker tumbled into losses, he said it was starting to become clear that there was no longer a case for keeping Daimler and Chrysler together. The American auto market was simply too volatile, and the scope for synergies between the Mercedes division of Daimler and Chrysler, which Mr. Zetsche had made an urgent priority when he took the helm of DaimlerChrysler in January 2006, were proving to be disappointing. Moreover, Chrysler&#8217;s emphasis on large vehicles was ill suited to an era of high gasoline prices, making it vulnerable not only to Japanese imports but to its crosstown rivals, &#8220;There were a number of issues, which obviously expressed the downside risk even more,&#8221; he said. &#8220;I can&#8217;t give you an exact date. It was an ongoing process where you feel how you go, step by step, not always on a rational basis, but you start to move in one direction.&#8221; Mr. Zetsche seemed at peace with the decision, which effectively turns back the clock to 1998 for Daimler. The company will revert to selling Mercedes-Benz cars and trucks, giving up its status as an all-in-one carmaker but retaining two profitable specialty businesses. &#8220;In my role,&#8221; he said, &#8220;I have to ultimately make judgments and decisions, based on business rationale.&#8221; With its stock price severely depressed, DaimlerChrysler was at risk of being a target for private equity investors. Mr. Zetsche noted that the disclosure in February that DaimlerChrysler was considering &#8220;all options&#8221; for Chrysler reduced that risk because the stock price soared. The new Daimler, he said, will be a well-capitalized carmaker focused on two of the fastest-growing segments of the market. Mr. Zetsche predicted that Mercedes, which has struggled in recent years, would give BMW a run for its money. &#8220;We are very much coming back,&#8221; he said. Mercedes is on track to earn better than a 7 percent return on sales, Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s goal. It recently rolled out a new version of its small C-class sedan, and says it has booked 80,000 orders. The next milestone for Mercedes will be a redesign of its linchpin E-class sedan in 2009. Mr. Zetsche emphasized that Daimler and Chrysler would continue to have a link beyond merely a 19.9 percent financial stake. &#8220;We have this moral and ethical link, and I personally do,&#8221; he said. Maintaining a stake in Chrysler was important in persuading the president of the , Ron Gettelfinger, to support the sale to Cerberus, according to Mr. Zetsche. On Saturday, the two men met for three and a half hours, joined by Thomas W. LaSorda, Chrysler&#8217;s chief executive. At the meeting in Auburn Hills, Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler&#8217;s managers seemed receptive, despite their questions. &#8220;It was really an atmosphere of a fresh start, of great opportunities going forward,&#8221; he said. &#8220;On a personal basis, we had a lot of hugs and strong emotions.&#8221; Stephen A. Feinberg, the low-profile financier who runs Cerberus, was at the meeting to explain his firm&#8217;s philosophy. &#8220;It was of extreme importance that Steve Feinberg did not remain a mystery man, but was a face to look at and a person to ask questions to,&#8221; Mr. Zetsche said, adding that he &#8220;created a lot of confidence.&#8221; While Daimler will now be known mainly for Mercedes, it still plans to roll out its Smart minicar in the United States in February. Smart recently set up a Web site that allows people to make a $99 down payment to reserve one. Within six weeks, 12,000 people had done so. Mr. Zetsche said Daimler&#8217;s nine years with an American partner had made its in-grown culture more open. &#8220;People hired from the outside were killed in a hurry,&#8221; he said of the premerger company. &#8220;That has changed a lot.&#8221; It also molded Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s management style. &#8220;The five years I spent in Auburn Hills were professionally and personally the most important and the most satisfying years I spent anywhere,&#8221; he said. Chrysler even made him something of a cult figure. After appearing in television commercials, Mr. Zetsche said he was stopped by strangers on the street. Six months ago, he recalled, he was waved through an airport line in New York by an officer who greeted him as Dr. Z. Daimler will soon decide whether to maintain English as the official language of the company &#151; a step it took after acquiring Chrysler. Mr. Zetsche said he strongly favored keeping English, but conceded that for reasons of efficiency, it might make sense to go back to German. One thing that seems destined to end along with Daimler&#8217;s Motown adventure: Mr. Zetsche&#8217;s career as a TV pitchman. &#8220;I&#8217;m much happier with this day job than with my night job,&#8221; he said. Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler Daimler's Chief Confirms Talks To Sell Chrysler Intertwined Chrysler Hard to Break Up Chief Says Chrysler Unit May Be Sold Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear Google Keeps Tweaking Its Search Engine Your Money: The 6 Percent Solution: Skip Real Estate Agents Advertising: Publishers Creating Their Own In-House Ad Agencies Career Couch: For the Chronically Late, It&#8217;s Not a Power Trip Everybody Talks About the Weather; All of a Sudden, It&#8217;s Controversial Ping: Genius and Misfit Aren&#8217;t Synonyms, or Are They? A Theme Song for Clinton: &#8216;I&#8217;m a Believer&#8217; vs. &#8216;Cold as Ice&#8217; A Hot-Selling Weapon, an Inviting Target Your Money: Advice to All You Graduates: Let&#39;s Start With That Daily Latte . . . Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Dow Jones Says It Will Consider Options for Sale Grandma Cooks, They Deliver How the Bancrofts Decided to Talk With Murdoch Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Overbooking, Bumped Fliers and No Plan B the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/19/business/19auto.html G.M.&#8217;s Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion - Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion Robert Lutz, vice chairman at General Motors, introducing a Chevrolet Volt in January. G.M. hopes to sell the hybrid-electric car by 2010. 2007 ANN ARBOR, Mich., May 18 — Robert A. Lutz, vice chairman at , has long been considered one of Detroit’s ultimate “car guys,” for whom no vehicle could be big enough, powerful enough or fast enough. Skip to next paragraph ‘Wait Wait ... Don’t Tell Me!’ G.M. Fast Lane Blog He is the father of the V-10 Dodge Viper and has championed automobiles like the 1,000-horsepower Cadillac Sixteen, a V-16 concept coupe that Mr. Lutz said would have fulfilled his longstanding goal of designing a high-powered car to match the finest European models. Now Mr. Lutz, known by his “Maximum Bob” nickname around Detroit, says he has a new dream car. Speaking at a taping of “Wait Wait ...Don’t Tell Me!” the quiz program on , Mr. Lutz declared Thursday night that the Chevrolet Volt, the hybrid-electric concept car that G.M. unveiled at this year’s Detroit auto show, may be among the most important vehicles that G.M. has ever developed. “This is now what I’m more excited about than I was about the Dodge Viper,” Mr. Lutz said. “I think this can bring about the revolution and really make us independent of foreign oil and solve all the other problems.” The show airs Saturday nationwide. With the same enthusiasm that he has long used to describe high torque ratings and engine displacements, Mr. Lutz touted the Volt’s mileage, which he estimated will reach 151 miles per gallon, fueled by a combination of electricity and gasoline. His comments drew a huge round of applause from the NPR audience at the Michigan Theater here. The prospect of Mr. Lutz going green represents a sharp reversal. After all, he has often mocked environmental advocates, saying that except for “a few nuts in California,” no one cared about the impact of cars on the environment. In 2003, he described ’s hybrid-electric Prius as a public relations stunt — although he admitted he wished General Motors had a similar model — and declared G.M.’s most important car to be the Chevrolet Corvette. That same year, G.M. showed off the Cadillac Sixteen, a four-door concept sports car commissioned by Mr. Lutz. It sported a 32-valve, 13.6-liter V-16 engine and a steering wheel logo carved out of crystal. G.M. never put that car into production. But it is planning to build a new version of the Chevrolet Camaro, its 1960s muscle car, starting next year. And in February, Mr. Lutz showed off a big rear-wheel drive concept sedan, the Pontiac G8, at the Chicago auto show, and said that Americans still wanted powerful cars. But G.M. is also moving ahead with the Volt, even though it hasn’t yet developed the lithium-ion battery that is needed to power it. Even so, Mr. Lutz has said G.M. hopes to sell it by 2010. “We’re actually going to put it into production,” Mr. Lutz said. “I think it could be one of the most important things we’ve ever developed.” " His apparent conversion is a hit with Dan Becker, head of the . “We take all epiphanies,” Mr. Becker said. But Mr. Becker noted that Mr. Lutz has questioned the existence of global warming. And Mr. Lutz does not appear quite ready to cut back on his own carbon footprint. He still owns two fighter jets — one Czech and one German — flies a helicopter, and has a stable full of sports cars including the second Viper ever produced (the first went to Chrysler’s former chief executive, Lee A. Iacocca). Peter Sagal, host of the NPR show, teased Mr. Lutz on Thursday about his choices for transportation: “You mean what goes on in your garage stays in your garage?” of a Rebound, Even as G.M.'s Asian Profits Fall Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Jackie and Krushchev - 1961 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/autoreviews/20AUTO.html?ex=1337313600&en=0b661526774aeb9e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - 2008 Audi R8 - Test Drive - the Wheel | 2008 Audi R8 Growling at the Exotics’ Door Powered by a 420-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8, the R8 starts at $110,000. 2007 Skip to next paragraph Some Racy Alternatives to the Audi R8 For all the racy overtones, the R8 is still a six-figure luxury car. THE Audi R8 always wakes up on the wrong side of bed. Spin the starter motor and the 420-horsepower, 4.2-liter V-8 directly behind your head greets the day with a ragged, grumpy cacophony of angry internal combustion. Fire it up inside a parking garage, where the din reverberates inside the R8&#8217;s snug cabin, and it&#8217;s easy to imagine you&#8217;re heading for the starting grid at Le Mans. And that&#8217;s entirely the point of this automobile. The 2008 R8 joins a small, elite group of production cars that manage to convey a convincing racecar vibe. Like a race machine, the R8 has a dry-sump lubrication system that sprays the bottom end of the motor with jets of oil to keep it from starving under high cornering loads. (Two other racecars for the street, the Porsche GT3 and Chevrolet Corvette Z06, also employ this approach.) The R8&#8217;s midengine design echoes that of Audi&#8217;s dominant R8 racecar, which racked up 62 wins in 79 starts. In fact, the R8 production car was styled by the same team that created the racer. I didn&#8217;t get to drive the R8 on a track, but based on its genes it should take to a road course the way and Steffi Graf&#8217;s children should shine on a tennis court. For all the racy overtones, however, this is still a six-figure luxury car, and an Audi at that. Thus the R8&#8217;s $110,000 base price can rocket skyward rather quickly once you begin adding creature comforts. For instance, you&#8217;ll want the $3,500 Convenience Package, the main feature of which is a rearview backup camera, because backing your new R8 into things is definitely inconvenient. My test car also had enhanced leather ($5,500), a navigation system ($2,000), a 465-watt Bang &#38; Olufsen sound system ($1,800), metallic paint ($650) and carbon fiber sideblades ($2,000). Budget another $9,000 if you go for the R-Tronic sequential manual transmission. (Sadly, a single-clutch Magneti Marelli and not Audi&#8217;s stellar Direct Shift Gearbox, which can&#8217;t handle so much power.) And that&#8217;s how you build a $134,000 Audi two-seater. Of course, at this point you&#8217;re probably saying to yourself, &#8220;An Audi priced in Maserati-land, fine, but what the heck is a sideblade?&#8221;&#8217; Good question. Adorning each flank of the R8, just behind the doors, is a vertical panel meant to visually shorten what is actually quite a long car &#151; the 104.3-inch wheelbase is about an inch longer than that of a Ford Escape S.U.V. (One benefit of that long wheelbase: the R8 can take two golf bags behind the seats.) It took me a while to make up my mind on the sideblades, which can be ordered in colors that contrast with the rest of the bodywork. At first I disliked them, then I wondered if I was being closed-minded toward styling innovation, and finally I concluded that the things are hideous and began referring to them as sideburns. Fortunately, you can specify body-color sideburns, thus minimizing their impact on what is otherwise a striking vehicle. On that front, this is something of a car-review clich&#233;, so forgive me for dragging it out here, but the R8 is a car that you really need to see in person. Photos do not do it justice. This car exudes drama and menace, particularly when it&#8217;s in motion. Driving through Beverly Hills with the windows down, I heard the driver of a passing Mercedes utter an involuntary &#8220;Whoooaahhh!&#8221; that rushed past in the slipstream. I realize that flashy new cars tend to draw an inordinate amount of attention in the first few months of their life, but Beverly Hills is about as jaded an environment as you find, and the R8 was the subject of more cellphone photos than a Lindsay Lohan-Paris Hilton bar brawl. Moreover, Audi&#8217;s in-house high-performance company, the confusingly named quattro GmbH, will build only 20 R8s a day at its dedicated plant, so this car will always remain an exclusive proposition. Heading out of Beverly Hills and into the canyons outside Los Angeles, the R8 came into its element. Audi says a run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. takes 4.4 seconds, but the R8 is less about straight-line speed than about cohesive balance, the ability to tackle any road with instant confidence. The car employs Audi&#8217;s quattro all-wheel-drive system, but the torque split is far more rear-biased than on any other Audi. As with its cousin, the Lamborghini Gallardo, the R8 strives to mimic the feel of a rear-drive car, so only 10 to 35 percent of the V-8&#8217;s torque is ever sent forward. At one particularly enthusiastic first-gear launch, I was surprised to find the enormous 295/30/19 rear tires spinning briefly before all four wheels dug in and catapulted the car forward. Burnouts are something you don&#8217;t expect from an all-wheel-drive Audi, even an RS 4. As I said, I didn&#8217;t get to drive the R8 on a track, and exploring this car&#8217;s limits on a public road would constitute sociopathic behavior on par with juggling chainsaws at a baby shower. Service Bulletins Help Plug the Leaks Short History, Long View; A Surging Audi Plans to Set the Pace in Luxury Cars BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Audi RS 4; Mighty Morphin' A4 Power Ranger BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Audi Q7; So Late to the S.U.V. Party, But So Smartly Dressed Audi Division of Volkswagen AG Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/23/nyregion/23taxi.html?ex=1337572800&en=d8475b3afe294e39&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Mayor Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet - Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet Left, Daniel Acker/Bloomberg News; right, Chris Hondros/Getty Images A Ford Escape Hybrid. 2007 The spacious but gas-guzzling , long the emblematic vehicle of the city&#8217;s yellow cab fleet, would be replaced by cleaner, more fuel-efficient hybrid vehicles under a five-year plan proposed by Mayor Skip to next paragraph More on The Empire Zone Blog » The move, which requires approval by the city&#8217;s Taxi and Limousine Commission , is part of the mayor&#8217;s ambitious environmental agenda for the city, PlaNYC, which calls for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent by 2030. &#8220;There&#8217;s an awful lot of taxicabs on the streets of New York City obviously, so it makes a real big difference,&#8221; Mayor Bloomberg said on NBC&#8217;s &#8220;Today&#8221; show yesterday. &#8220;These cars just sit there in traffic sometimes, belching fumes. This does a lot less; it&#8217;s a lot better for all of us.&#8221; Replacing the city&#8217;s 13,000 yellow cabs, more than 90 percent of which are Crown Victorias, with hybrid vehicles would have the same impact on air quality as removing 32,000 privately owned vehicles from the road, the mayor said. Hybrids, which run on a combination of gasoline and electricity, emit less exhaust and are far more fuel-efficient; a hybrid , for instance, is rated at 34 miles per gallon in city driving. Environmentalists have long complained about the poor gas mileage of the Crown Victoria, which gets 10 to 15 miles to the gallon in city traffic. But taxi owners and drivers say they like the vehicle&#8217;s spaciousness, dependability and safety. In the last two years the city has added about 375 hybrid vehicles to the yellow cab fleet, including models like the , a sport utility vehicle; and Ford Escape, another S.U.V. Under the mayor&#8217;s plan, that number would triple by October 2008 and would grow by about 20 percent each year after that. While the plan does not specifically require that the new taxis be hybrids, it calls for all new vehicles entering the fleet beginning in October 2008 to get at least 25 miles to the gallon, rising to 30 miles to the gallon for cars entering the fleet the following year. City officials said the only vehicles that currently meet those fuel standards, as well as tougher emission standards that the mayor is proposing, are hybrids. Mr. Bloomberg said the new regulations would have little impact on the city&#8217;s cab owners, who by law are required to replace their vehicles every three to five years, depending on their use. The city&#8217;s yellow cabs are privately owned but regulated by the Taxi and Limousine Commission, the head of which is appointed by the mayor. He said the slightly higher cost of buying hybrid vehicles would be offset by the average $10,000 a year owners would save in fuel costs. The mayor&#8217;s proposal for higher fuel standards was first reported in The Daily News yesterday. PlaNYC initially called for converting the fleet within 10 years. But Mr. Bloomberg said City Councilman David Yassky, a longtime advocate of a greener taxi fleet, had persuaded him to cut that time in half. The faster schedule, however, also reflects the mayor&#8217;s desire to get as much of his PlaNYC carried out before he leaves office at the end of 2009, especially those elements that do not require state approval or financing. &#8220;I&#8217;ve never liked to plan something and then have somebody else have the responsibility of doing it or paying for it,&#8221; the mayor said yesterday. The mayor and Mr. Yassky appeared together on the &#8220;Today&#8221; show and at a separate announcement at City Hall, flanked by 3 of 10 new hybrid Ford Escapes donated yesterday by Yahoo Inc. to a fleet operator, Team Systems. &#8220;They gave us 10 cars, which they&#8217;re paying for, which is a heck of an impetus for us to go ahead and say, &#8216;Let&#8217;s do it now,&#8217; &#8221; the mayor said. Cabdrivers and owners had mixed feelings about the mandate yesterday. &#8220;The trick is to balance passenger comfort and safety, for the both the passenger and the driver, with environmental concerns,&#8221; Michael Woloz, a spokesman for the Metropolitan Taxicab Board of Trade, an industry group, said yesterday. &#8220;The stretch Crown Victoria has met all those needs.&#8221; Liaquat Janjma, 50, drives the night shift in a cab owned by a friend. Six months ago they switched from a Crown Victoria to a Toyota Highlander Hybrid, and the impact was immediate, saving him $20 to $50 a shift. &#8220;The only bad thing is that repairs can be very, very expensive,&#8221; he said. Matthew W. Daus, chairman of the Taxi and Limousine Commission, said that even with higher maintenance costs, &#8220;when you add it all up, with the gas savings, it&#8217;s going to mean more money in the drivers&#8217; pockets.&#8221; San Francisco, Boston and other cities have introduced hybrids into their taxi fleets, but New York City officials said the mayor&#8217;s plan was believed to be the most extensive of any major city. The officials said the new fleets would cut carbon dioxide emissions by 215,000 metric tons a year, just a small fraction of the 58.3 million metric tons the city produces each year. Still, Kate Sindig, a senior attorney at the Natural Resources Defense Council , said the mayor&#8217;s plan would &#8220;have real impacts, both in terms of air pollution and &#8220;It also sends a really powerful signal around the world,&#8221; she added, &#8220;because New York is a city that is looked to around the world.&#8221; Kate Hammer contributed reporting. York Region Mark a Cab Centennial, These Designers Look Ahead GREEN TECH; Is That a Tinge of Green on New York's Yellow Cabs? CITY LORE; King Cab Taxicabs and Taxicab Drivers York Region &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/automobiles/11ford.html?ex=1336536000&en=b91443f77dbb23ff&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes - Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Bradley C. Brower/Bloomberg News Alan R. Mulally, left, Ford&#146;s chief executive, conferred with William Clay Ford, the executive chairman, at the annual shareholders&#146; meeting. 2007 WILMINGTON, Del., May 10 &#151; A group of shareholders took turns blaming the company&#8217;s executive chairman, William Clay Ford Jr. , at the annual meeting Thursday, criticizing every decision he made as the former chief executive except one. That was his decision last September to hire a executive, Alan R. Mulally, as his successor. Mr. Mulally, 61, a boyish-looking aeronautical engineer who worked for Boeing for 37 years and rose to become its senior vice president, was widely credited with rescuing its commercial airline division from its economic troubles after the events of 9/11. &#8220;Alan knows what it&#8217;s like to have your back to the wall, and fight your way out with a well-conceived plan and great execution,&#8221; Mr. Ford has said. Now Ford has its back to the wall, with a $12.7 billion loss in 2006, seven consecutive quarterly losses and a shrinking market share. Mr. Mulally, alternating between empathy with shareholder concerns and optimism for the company&#8217;s &#8220;Way Forward&#8221; recovery plan, urged the 79 shareholders who gathered for the meeting at the Hotel du Pont to have patience, and promised results &#8220;in the months and the years ahead.&#8221; &#8220;We are moving quickly and making real progress,&#8221; he said. &#8220;But it&#8217;s going to take time to turn things around.&#8221; The automaker, based in Detroit, has borrowed $23.5 billion to help finance accelerated product development and a reduction in operating costs that includes closing 16 plants and eliminating 44,000 jobs by 2012. A provision of the loan, which is secured by assets that include the company&#8217;s trademark blue oval logo, effectively bars Ford from paying dividends until 2013 or until the loan is paid off, a spokeswoman, Becky Sanch, said. Shareholders voting by proxy re-elected the 12 current board members with 95.9 percent of the votes cast. All seven shareholder proposals failed, including those calling for a reduction in greenhouse gases, performance-based compensation for executives and health care as a fiduciary duty. But support increased for a proposal to extinguish the Ford family&#8217;s 40 percent voting control through their supervoting shares by recapitalizing all outstanding stock to one vote per share. The proposal won 27.4 percent of the vote this year, up from 22.9 percent in 2006. After the meeting, Mr. Mulally told reporters that as a global company, Ford was &#8220;absolutely supporting free trade,&#8221; notwithstanding the increasing market share in North America of its rival Toyota. He also acknowledged that there would be industry consolidation because of market overcapacity. When asked if there had been talk of a merger at Ford, Ms. Sanch said, &#8220;There has been a lot of speculation. But it&#8217;s nothing we&#8217;re interested in. We&#8217;re focused on turning around our business, not on any type of merger or acquisition.&#8221; She said she knew of no contact from a potential buyer. Give Ex-Chief The Blame For Ford Woes Mulally Names an Environmental Executive for Ford Ford Pays Chief $28 Million for 4 Months' Work Ford Chief Sticking to His Road Map for Turnaround Appointments and Executive Changes Ford, William Clay Jr Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/29/automobiles/29PRIMER.html?ex=1335499200&en=552054e223cdb804&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) - Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) The Ford Edge with HySeries Drive. 29, 2007 AT the moment, hydrogen seems to be the most practical way to power vehicles that do not emit carbon dioxide, the principal greenhouse gas. But despite considerable research, many hurdles remain. Here are some questions and answers: Skip to next paragraph From Point A to Point B by Way of H Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles Where does hydrogen come from? Hydrogen, an odorless, colorless gas, is the lightest and most plentiful element in the universe. It is found in water and in most organic matter, but it is usually bound with other elements. For that reason, it is called an energy carrier, meaning that energy has to be expended to extract it. But can’t it be burned in an engine? Fuels like coal, natural gas or oil can be taken from the ground and used with relatively little energy-intensive processing. But hydrogen must be turned into a fuel — and because it takes so much energy to produce, it should not be thought of as a direct replacement for fuels like gasoline. Rather, it is energy in a portable form, somewhat akin to electricity. Because aside from being plentiful, it is very clean. Cars running on hydrogen produce very little tailpipe pollution and no greenhouse gases — they leave only a trail of water. In this way, cars running on fuel cells — which produce electricity by a chemical reaction of hydrogen and oxygen — would produce no tailpipe emissions. What is hydrogen used for today? It has several uses. About nine million tons of hydrogen are produced annually in the United States, mostly for chemical production, petroleum refining and metal treatment. What is the cost of a unit of hydrogen with the same energy content as a gallon of gasoline? That question has many answers. Hydrogen is certainly expensive to produce now, with costs somewhat dependent on the source material. A kilogram of hydrogen has about the same energy content as a gallon of gasoline, but hydrogen proponents point out that fuel cells can have double or triple the efficiency of gasoline engines. Hydrogen is most commonly produced by a process called steam reforming, which extracts the hydrogen from natural gas. The cost of natural gas reforming, which has been the cheapest method, has been affected by the rising price of natural gas. A kilo of hydrogen produced by steam reforming costs from $4 to $8 today. It can also be made by electrolysis, which separates water into hydrogen and oxygen. The cost of hydrogen produced from water is tied to the price of electricity, which fluctuates by region and by type of generation. If grid electricity sold for 5 cents per kilowatt-hour, hydrogen could be produced through electrolysis for $3 per gallon equivalent. But electricity is typically 10 to 14 cents today, so electrolytic hydrogen from grid electricity is often $6 per gallon equivalent or more. These high costs make hydrogen generated from renewable electricity sources like wind farms or solar power more attractive. A federal National Renewable Energy Laboratory report in February estimated that a kilogram of hydrogen could be produced for $3.63 using solar power and for $3.10 using wind. “The solar technology is promising, but it won’t happen quickly,” said Robert D. McConnell of the laboratory’s solar energy program. Can nuclear power be a source of inexpensive hydrogen? Yes. Dr. Kenneth R. Schultz, operations director of the energy group at General Atomics, a research and development firm in San Diego, said that by 2025 the nuclear industry could be able to produce hydrogen for $1.50 to $2 a kilogram. But Amory B. Lovins, chairman and chief scientist at the Rocky Mountain Institute, a nonprofit energy research organization in Snowmass, Colo., described both the process and the price as “aspirational.” How will we use hydrogen in a motor vehicle? There are several options. In the most common prediction, compressed hydrogen gas is stored in a reinforced tank aboard a car, then fed to a fuel cell. The cell is not an engine, but a small chemical factory that converts the pressurized gas to electricity, which runs an electric motor. The only emission is water. Liquid hydrogen offers excellent energy density per volume, but it would have to be carried in cryogenic tanks because hydrogen doesn’t liquefy until it reaches minus 423 degrees Fahrenheit. Metal hydrides offer an opportunity to store hydrogen in solid form, but such a system is heavy and therefore reduces the vehicle’s travel range. Jim Motavalli, the editor of E: The Environmental Magazine, is a frequent contributor to The New York Times. Made On the Scene HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway HYDROGEN'S SECOND COMING; A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/othersports/11nascar.html?ex=1336536000&en=20eacad09b580c64&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent - Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Dale Earnhardt Jr. said he was leaving Dale Earnhardt Inc. so he could contend for championships. 2007 MOORESVILLE, N.C., May 10 — , the son of a legend and the most popular driver in , has put himself on the open market for 2008. His free agency will send ripples throughout the sport, potentially affecting driver salaries, merchandise sales and even television ratings, not to mention the balance of power among race teams. Skip to next paragraph Amy Conn/ Associated Press Dale Earnhardt, left, and his son Dale Jr., at Daytona International Speedway in 2001. Earnhardt Sr. died in a crash at Daytona that year. Earnhardt opened the door to all of that when he announced Thursday that he would leave Dale Earnhardt Inc. when his contract ends after this season. It was a stunning decision by Earnhardt, who has raced for his father’s team since his career began, winning 17 Cup races and two lower-level Busch Series championships. “At 32 years of age, the same as my father was when he made his final and most important career decision, it is time for me to compete on a consistent basis and contend for championships now,” Earnhardt said Thursday at a news conference at his JR Motorsports race shop. The announcement came after a year of negotiations that occasionally devolved into a public spat between Earnhardt and his stepmother, Teresa Earnhardt. She had taken over full ownership of the company after Dale Earnhardt died in a crash during the 2001 Daytona 500. It was Teresa Earnhardt’s stewardship, and Earnhardt’s belief that he could not win championships with D.E.I., that led to his departure. He has not won a race since May 6, 2006, and has only two victories since the start of 2005. “He needs to start winning again,” Humpy Wheeler, president of Lowe’s Motor Speedway and a longtime race promoter, said in a telephone interview. “He’s got to put himself in a position where he can win two or three races a year to keep that popularity, and he knows that. “Personalities drive all sports, and he is the most popular personality that we have. He accounts for a significant part of souvenir sales.” Maintaining that popularity will have an effect on everyone in the sport. “If Dale Jr. will wind up with a team that’s in contention to win races every week and contend for a championship, that’s got to help ticket sales at the gate, TV ratings, all those kinds of things,” Eddie Gossage, president of Texas Motor Speedway, said in a telephone interview. “It’s one of those things, a rising tide floats all boats.” Earnhardt is not the first Nascar driver to become a free agent. There are no rules limiting movement; it is relatively common for drivers to switch teams as contracts expire. But it is rare for a driver of Earnhardt’s stature, at the height of his career and popularity, to make himself available to other teams. to become a free agent. “A new paradigm has just been established in American motor sports,” Gossage wrote in an e-mail message. “Just as Andy Messersmith ushered in the era of modern-day free agency in major league baseball, Dale Jr. is establishing modern-day free agency in Nascar. Dale Jr. will now determine his full value on the open market and have the opportunity to make his own choices to put himself in a position to win races and championships. “Dale Jr.’s announcement is every bit as significant as A-Rod’s huge contract a few years back or ’s extraordinary contract signing last week with the Earnhardt said Thursday that this decision was not about money. He is looking to join a team that will help him win consistently. Kelley Earnhardt Elledge, Earnhardt’s sister and chief negotiator, said a number of teams had contacted them in recent months to express interest. They hope to have a deal done in 60 days, she said later. Earnhardt said he would listen to all offers but would work to remain with a Chevrolet team. Three Chevrolet teams are at the top of the sport: Hendrick Motorsports, Joe Gibbs Racing and Richard Childress Racing. Hendrick, though, has contracts with , Jimmie Johnson, Kyle Busch and Casey Mears and has sponsors through at least 2008. Nascar rules limit each owner to four drivers. Gibbs and Childress have three drivers apiece, but if Budweiser remains an Earnhardt sponsor that could be a problem. Gibbs does not want to be involved with an alcohol sponsorship and Childress has one with Jack Daniels, creating a conflict. “I think most everyone out there would say, ‘Yeah, he’d be a great fit here,’ ” J. D. Gibbs, president of Joe Gibbs Racing, said in a telephone interview. “I think for us, we’re just focusing kind of on what we’re doing now. Obviously he’s a big part of our sport, I think he could do about whatever he wants to do.” Earnhardt’s father won six of his seven championships for Childress. But Earnhardt would hesitate to drive the racecar that his father made famous. “I’ve got to do a little soul searching about how I feel about driving the No. 3 car,” he said. Earnhardt did not rule out driving a different racecar for Childress, though. He also could create a Cup team for JR Motorsports, although that is not the No. 1 option. Wherever he goes, the greatest impact could ultimately be felt at Dale Earnhardt Inc., which is losing the sport’s most marketable driver. “Well, the most classic statement that I’ve heard, and it came from : ‘What’s D.E.I. without Dale Jr.? A museum,’ ” said the three-time Cup champion Darrell Waltrip, who attended the news conference. “And that’s a pretty good analogy, I would say.” Teams Line Up to Make a Pitch for a Big Catch Sister Has Seat of Power as Earnhardt Drives On AUTO RACING; Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent National Assn of Stock Car Auto Racing &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Joe Namath leaping - 1966 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/20PHONE.html How&#8217;s My Driving? Dial My License Plate - My Driving? Dial My License Plate If you register with SameLane, you can connect to other motorists displaying its bumper sticker. 2007 IN “American Graffiti,” the character played by Richard Dreyfuss spends much of the movie pursuing a mysterious woman played by Suzanne Somers, who drives a white Ford Thunderbird. If only they had SameLane, a service that allows drivers to call strangers on the road by dialing their license plate numbers into cellphones. A CB radio for this century, SameLane is aimed at commuters stuck in traffic, long-haul drivers fighting fatigue and good Samaritans trying to help people with broken taillights and such. To use the service, which goes live on Monday, drivers register their cellphone and license plate numbers with SameLane, which sends them bumper stickers identifying the drivers as part of the SameLane network. After spotting a member, drivers dial a company number, punch in the license plate number of the car they want to reach and wait for SameLane’s computers to connect the call. Registration and the first three calls of up to three minutes each are free. Callers then pay $1.99 a minute using a debit account that must be set up on SameLane’s site, . Of course, if drivers like each other, they can exchange cellphone numbers and talk without SameLane. Vince Waterson, part owner of Delta Meridian of Dallas, which is offering the service, said he wanted to bring to driving the feel of waiting at Starbucks, where customers have casual conversations and even strike up friendships. “You have this wall of steel and glass between you and the guy in the next lane,” he said. “Sometimes people see someone with a bumper sticker of things they enjoy, and sometimes they just want to talk to someone to keep from falling asleep.” Mr. Waterson, who has worked in the telecommunications industry for about 40 years, has tried to address some of his service’s biggest potential drawbacks. Callers do not see each other’s real cellphone numbers, which preserves some of their anonymity. They can also block calls to prevent pests from turning into stalkers. Mr. Waterson said that SameLane would not promote dangerous driving. The first set of advertisements for the service (to be broadcast on talk radio stations in and around Atlanta, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington) will encourage drivers to make calls only when their vehicles are not in motion. Those admonishments are likely to fall on deaf ears given how much time drivers already spend chatting on their phones, analysts said. Indeed, the service may lead people to reach for their cellphones instead of making obscene gestures at reckless drivers. “There’s some dangerous potential for incidents of road rage with this,” said David Alexander, an analyst in the automotive systems group at ABI Research of Oyster Bay, N.Y. “It’s being publicized as a social service, but what about the guy that cuts in front of you?” SameLane is not the first service to try to connect drivers. lets drivers post personal profiles online that others who spot their bumper stickers can view later. A variety of satellite-based services helps companies and their drivers communicate with each other. The CB radio created communities of drivers decades ago. But those radios broadcast one person to many people. By contrast, SameLane is a one-to-one service that will need thousands of customers if drivers are to have a decent chance to meet others on the road, said Carmi Levy, an analyst at Info-Tech Research Group of London, Ontario. Charging drivers $1.99 a minute will not encourage people to sign up, he added. Still, online services like MySpace and Facebook have defied skeptics and are very popular with young people, so one cannot fault Mr. Waterson for trying to replicate their success in the automotive industry, said Josh Bernoff, an analyst who tracks social networks for Forrester Research of Cambridge, Mass. “If a bunch of people are all going in the same direction, there has to be something you can do with them,” he said. “Targeting people when they are bored out of their skull is a longstanding business practice in America.” Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 We Ask So Much Of Our Batteries; Need for Power Runs Into Basic Hurdles of Science CIRCUITS; A Bluetooth Plug-and-Chat Device Keeps Your Hands on the Wheel NEWS WATCH: ACCESSORIES; Hand-Held Devices Come Into View With a Magnifying Glass Automobile Registration and License Plate Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky "The Amazin's," 80-page Commemorative Newspaper and Box Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/worldbusiness/15daimler.html?ex=1336881600&en=c4abb1cdcfe8b4a0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap - Corporate Divorce on the Cheap 2007 STUTTGART, Germany, May 14 — Nine years after they exchanged vows at a huge, lavishly choreographed news conference in London, Daimler and Chrysler signed their divorce papers Monday at a sparsely attended briefing in an auditorium at an aging Mercedes-Benz factory here. Skip to next paragraph From left, Thomas LaSorda of Chrysler, John Snow of Cerberus and Dieter Zetsche of Daimler at a news briefing Monday. News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground As bookends, the two news conferences vividly illustrated the dashed dreams of the Daimler-Chrysler marriage. At least for one partner, though, the sale of Chrysler to Cerberus Capital Management represents a potentially invigorating emancipation. Daimler, now largely free of its struggling American partner, can look ahead to what analysts generally agree is a promising future as a stand-alone maker of trucks and luxury cars. “I’m very optimistic,” said Adam Jonas of in London. “Daimler is the largest truck company in the world and one of the most valuable premium car companies in the world.” The price of freedom for the soon-to-be-renamed Daimler A.G. is $677 million in cash — its out-of-pocket outlay in the $7.4 billion transaction — for Cerberus to take Chrysler off its hands. It is also shedding nearly $18 billion in health care and pension liabilities. For a merger once valued at $36 billion, it was a humiliating comedown. Nor are Chrysler’s long-term prospects clear. Cerberus dispatched its chairman, , the former secretary of the Treasury, to Stuttgart to drum up excitement about Chrysler’s future and to reassure managers and workers that the investment firm is not going to turn Chrysler inside out. Among Daimler executives here, however, there was a sense that they got the good end of the bargain. The company’s businesses — trucks, buses and luxury cars — are among the fastest-growing and most profitable segments in the industry. And Mercedes-Benz, after a period in which it suffered from quality concerns and eroding profits, is on an upswing. “There are more people with higher incomes,” said Garel Rhys, director of the Center for Automotive Industry Research at Cardiff University in Wales, “and they are living longer, so they have time to buy these cars.” Though it will become much smaller, Daimler will have a stronger balance sheet, a hoard of cash and a clear focus. “The new Daimler will stand on a very solid foundation,” the chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, said. None of this dispelled a palpable sense of regret on the part of Mr. Zetsche, who made his reputation running Chrysler and even lent his image to television commercials for its vehicles. The company will retain a 19.9 percent stake in Chrysler. “We obviously overestimated the potential of synergies,” Mr. Zetsche said of the 1998 merger. “I don’t know if any amount of due diligence could have given us a better estimate in that regard.” Daimler, he said, was not able to exploit the combination of its highly engineered Mercedes-Benz luxury cars with the mass-market vehicles of Chrysler because American motorists could not, or would not, pay a premium for a Chrysler equipped with Mercedes technology. What Daimler encountered instead were the unforgiving vagaries of the American car market. Chrysler lost $1.5 billion last year, and the losses are expected to continue this year. Finally, Mr. Zetsche said, could no longer bear the pressure on its profits or share price. DaimlerChrysler stock closed up nearly 2 percent in Frankfurt trading on Monday, after jumping as much as 7.8 percent when news of the agreement with Cerberus was reported. It has risen 25 percent since Mr. Zetsche disclosed in February that the company was considering alternatives, including a divestiture. Mr. Zetsche insisted that Chrysler did not drain cash from Mercedes. Despite its recent losses, it generated nearly $15 billion in cumulative profits during the years it was owned by Daimler. But analysts said Daimler could have found better uses for the cash it poured into Chrysler. “They spent about $60 billion acquiring, restructuring and investing in Chrysler over the last nine years,” Mr. Jonas of Morgan Stanley said. “Just think where the next $60 billion could go if it was invested properly.” Among other things, he said, Mercedes-Benz could introduce more innovative and alluring cars to compete with German brands like BMW and Audi. BMW, which has taken the mantle of the world’s top luxury carmaker in recent years, may feel new heat from its old rival. on Verge of Sale to a Private Firm Cerberus&#8217;s Strategic Plan May Finally Be Paying Off Guardedly Kicking the Tires on Chrysler Again, Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear Google Keeps Tweaking Its Search Engine Your Money: The 6 Percent Solution: Skip Real Estate Agents Advertising: Publishers Creating Their Own In-House Ad Agencies Career Couch: For the Chronically Late, It&#8217;s Not a Power Trip Everybody Talks About the Weather; All of a Sudden, It&#8217;s Controversial Ping: Genius and Misfit Aren&#8217;t Synonyms, or Are They? A Theme Song for Clinton: &#8216;I&#8217;m a Believer&#8217; vs. &#8216;Cold as Ice&#8217; A Hot-Selling Weapon, an Inviting Target Your Money: Advice to All You Graduates: Let&#39;s Start With That Daily Latte . . . Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Dow Jones Says It Will Consider Options for Sale Grandma Cooks, They Deliver How the Bancrofts Decided to Talk With Murdoch Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Overbooking, Bumped Fliers and No Plan B the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/23/us/23climate.html?ex=1337572800&en=e74be04a38d4abfe&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss California Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules - Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules 2007 ARLINGTON, Va., May 22 &#151; Officials from demanded on Tuesday that federal regulators allow the state to impose the strictest automobile and light truck emissions rules in the nation. They said that new regulations were needed to lessen the threat of and threatened to sue if the government did not allow them to go forward. California&#8217;s attorney general, Jerry Brown, told an panel here that the proposed standards on greenhouse gases were the most comprehensive effort in the nation&#8217;s history to address issues experts attribute to the gradual warming of the planet, including melting ice caps, rising sea levels and rampant wildfires. &#8220;Protecting our planet is not a partisan issue, and the states now want to do what we can in the absence of federal action,&#8221; said Mr. Brown, a former governor of California, &#8220;and the E.P.A. has no right to deny us the ability to move forward.&#8221; A representative of the auto industry warned that adopting the new California standards would be &#8220;counterproductive,&#8221; raising the price of cars, costing jobs and imposing inconsistent auto emissions standards around the country. Mr. Brown noted that the auto and oil industries objected to the new rules, but urged the E.P.A. panel to overrule them in the interests of the broader public. Eleven other states, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, have said they will adopt the California standards if the federal government approves them. Together they account for roughly 30 percent of the American population and 30 percent of the vehicles on the road. Tailpipe emissions from cars and trucks account for about a third of all the greenhouse gas production in the United States. California is seeking a waiver under the federal Clean Air Act to enact its own emissions standards with a goal of reducing greenhouse gas production from vehicles by 30 percent by 2016. California officials argue that affordable technology exists to make cars run cleaner and burn less fuel, and thus produce less carbon dioxide and other pollutants that may contribute to global warming. E.P.A. officials gave no indication how or when they would rule on California&#8217;s petition. Another public hearing is scheduled for next week in Sacramento, and the agency is accepting public comment for several weeks after that. Officials from the 12 states have said they will sue if the E.P.A. does not grant the waiver by October. The agency has granted California some 50 such waivers since the first federal clean air laws were enacted in the 1960s, and California has long been at the forefront of air quality regulation. California applied for the current waiver in December 2005. Steven Douglas, director of environmental affairs for a consortium of auto manufacturers, said the California rules would be costly and reduce the types and sizes of vehicles available to consumers, arguments the industry has used to oppose new fuel-efficiency standards. Mr. Douglas said the industry supported improving mileage standards, but warned that forcing automakers to increase mileage would cost jobs, make cars less safe and harm the economy. He said California had not proven that its new regulations would actually help slow global warming. He urged regulators to reject the tough new California rules and move more gradually toward national standards on emissions and fuel economy. &#8220;In this light,&#8221; Mr. Douglas said, &#8220;a patchwork of state-level fuel economy regulations as is now proposed by California is not just unnecessary but actually counterproductive.&#8221; Numerous witnesses at the E.P.A. hearing on Tuesday rejected those arguments, saying they were reminiscent of claims made by the car companies over the years to try to delay or defeat various safety and environmental regulations. &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect Briefing | West: California: Suit Over Emissions Is Threatened Detroit Decides to Help Shape, Not Resist, Regulation of Emissions Bush Splits on Greenhouse Gases With Congress and State Officials THE COURT AND CLIMATE CHANGE; JUSTICES SAY E.P.A. HAS POWER TO ACT ON HARMFUL GASES &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky The North Pole Was Here by Andrew C. Revkin Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/20VOICE.html?ex=1337313600&en=c5cc280984300d27&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Voice Recognition Closes In on HAL - Recognition Closes In on HAL JOHN R. QUAIN Published: May 20, 2007 NOT long after computers settled into cars to impose their electronic authority on engines, transmissions and safety systems, microprocessors began speaking up, nagging passengers to buckle the seat belts and issuing alerts about doors that were ajar. It wasn’t long before revelation struck: what we really wanted was not cars that talked, but listened. Decades later, voice recognition systems are a staple of the luxury class, an alternative to buttons, joysticks and touch-screens that control onboard entertainment systems and satellite navigation devices. Voice recognition is, in theory at least, a relief from the human-machine interfaces that most drivers can only rate as frustrating. This HAL 9000 fantasy is behind the development of voice recognition programs that enable people to converse with (or at least have their spoken commands understood by) machines. Already, desktop software like Dragon NaturallySpeaking from Nuance Communications and ViaVoice from I.B.M. have made it possible for a PC to take dictation. But so far automobiles have been limited to basic commands. In part, speech recognition in cars has been held back by the limited amount of onboard computer memory and the processing demands of the software. Large vocabularies need to be stored on hard disk drives and processors have to work with complex language models — the combination of linguistics and statistics — to interpret what is being said. Today, navigation systems in luxury cars like the Acura MDX can respond to perfunctory commands, like “Find the nearest gas station.” “Voice destination entry, or V.D.E., has been a big thing these days,” John Watts, manager for product planning at Honda’s Acura division, said. Indeed, Acura’s navigation system, with voice recognition derived from I.B.M.’s ViaVoice software, can even perform concierge-in-a-car tricks like finding an address based on a phone number dictated by the driver. While such systems do not need to be trained like the dictation programs used on desktop PCs, drivers often find they have to train themselves to use the right words in the right context. Asking for “Traffic, please” at the wrong time can flummox most systems. Did you want music from the ’70s supergroup or information about gridlock on your route? As costs have come down and the complexity of onboard computers has ramped up, the computing limitations are largely fading away, Roberto Sicconi, director for speech technology integration at I.B.M. Research in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., said. The voice recognition software I.B.M. has developed for cars, for example, “is now as powerful or more powerful than ViaVoice was on a desktop computer” just six years ago, he said. So why is a car not able to tell the difference between a request for a tune by Steve Winwood’s former band and the need to avoid congestion on Interstate 95? The main problem in seamlessly switching between systems — entertainment and navigation, for instance — using conversational speech has been getting the car to understand the context of what the driver is saying, according to Tom Freeman, co-founder of VoiceBox Technologies of Bellevue, Wash. VoiceBox has been working on what it calls a conversational speech engine for cars that should be ready in the next year or so, he said. “Having consumers memorize 1,000 different commands for the right context can be distracting, even deadly” if there is confusion when you are driving 60 miles an hour, he said. So VoiceBox developed specialized software programs that overlay existing speech recognition engines like those from I.B.M. and Nuance. These digital agents are designed specifically to interpret the driver’s intention and determine the correct context for a given request. In a recent demonstration — driving around Manhattan with a prototype portable VoiceBox system — the advantage of such sophisticated software was immediately apparent. Simply saying, “I’d like to listen to jazz and blues,” turned on the XM satellite radio and tuned in the correct station while we hunted for a parking spot. Asking the system “Who’s playing?” brought a response that After replying to a series of questions about current basketball scores, in response to, “What about Boston?” the VoiceBox computer also correctly surmised that we wanted to know about the Celtics and not the rock band or traffic in the city. And quickly changing topics from “What’s the traffic like on I-95?” to “Turn it down!” did not confuse the system. Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 Basics; Getting Around, Made Easier AUTOS ON MONDAY/Technology; Are You Ready to Have A Chat With Your Car? Behind the wheel/2004 Acura TL; Those German Lessons Are Paying Off Computers and the Internet Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/27DESIGN.html?ex=1337918400&en=0ce03d300ddaba71&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss From a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies - a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies 2007 AS Daimler and Chrysler negotiate their separation, the sedan widely regarded as the best design to come from their marriage, the Chrysler 300, might imagine itself in a movie moment: She is a lovely daughter at the prom. In a bittersweet scene, the divorcing mom and dad are ruefully proud: “At least our marriage produced her!” When Daimler-Benz bought Chrysler a decade ago, predictions for the offspring — chunky German sedan meets lithe PT Cruiser — ran to cartoonish extremes. But the 300 hangs marvelously and daringly on the edge of cartoonlike excess, never quite succumbing. The 300 and its Dodge sibling, the Charger, combine American bravado with German solidity, just as the authors of the merger hoped. The Charger and the 300 changed the definition of the American sedan with an influence as profound as that of the original in the mid-1980s or the cab-forward Chrysler LH cars — the — that helped to save the company in the ’90s. One of the ideas behind the union was to join German taste and restraint with the sort of American exuberance and design vitality demonstrated by Tom Gale, vice president for design at Chrysler from 1985 to 2000, in creating the Prowler, Viper, PT Cruiser and LH sedans. Did the effort pay off? The record is not bad. For all the hits and misses in auto show design studies, for all the ideas that never quite gelled, the designers of Chrysler’s staff, led today by Trevor Creed, senior vice president for design of the Chrysler Group (and a veteran of Ford’s original Taurus team), have a lot to boast about: wins as big as the 300 and Charger are historic. The 300 had roots in designs done for the auto show circuit. Directing a team of designers from Chrysler’s Pacifica advanced design studio in Carlsbad, Calif., Freeman Thomas, now the director for North American strategic design at Ford, helped dream up the concept of the noble sedan, a stately and grandly proportioned big car. With the Ford Interceptor concept vehicle, Mr. Thomas has provided Ford with its own version of the noble sedan theme. The themes of the 300 and Charger (and Dodge’s wagon version of the platform, the Magnum) lay in cars like the Super 8 Hemi design study, with its oddball reversed windshield pillar, developed under Mr. Thomas. Shown in 2001, it was widely derided. Yet elements of the idea — especially the sense of overstatement — showed up in the Charger and Magnum. Mr. Creed had similar ideas for a breakthrough design. He also envisioned a car with a high beltline and exaggerated forms that visually suggested power, and at the same time promised solidity and security. It would stand out on the road like nothing else. “The car embodies a holistic approach to design," Mr. Creed said when the 300 was unveiled. “Every line and proportion provide visual promise for the automobile, including its driving experience.” He put Ralph Gilles — at the time, head of Studio 3 at Chrysler — in charge of what became the 300 and Charger. Mr. Gilles is today vice president for Jeep and truck design. The 300 clicked. Some 60,000 were sold in the first six months. Sales were also strong for the Charger sedan and Magnum wagon. The 300 was a new kind of Chrysler, one that seemed to possess a bit of Mercedes-Benz. Mercedes drivers immediately recognized the characteristic stalk-style cruise control in the cockpit of the 300, just like the stalk they hit when signaling a turn. The mouth-breathing macho face and the big, haunched bodies of the cars cried out for larger wheels and a certain hip-hop chic. Touches of panache — tortoise-shell trim on the steering wheel of the 300, for instance — reflected American flamboyance that crossed over into excess when Snoop Dogg and other hip-hop figures endorsed the look. Other creations of the DaimlerChrysler combination were less successful. The two-seaters, imagined as an American version of the Mercedes SLK roadster, never captured many hearts. Designed as a concept by Eric Stoddard, a young designer who has since moved to Kia, the Crossfire went on sale in 2003. Mr. Stoddard said the car was intended to combine the spirit of European sports cars with American ones. A test case of joint design and development, the Crossfire was built on the underpinnings of the SLK, already several years old, and was built in the same German factory by Karmann, a subcontractor. Some reviewers found the driving dynamics of the Crossfire preferable to the SLK, but the chassis was already showing its age. The SLK was replaced a year later, leaving Chrysler with hand-me-down technology. With its oversize grille, ribbed hood, complicated side vent, spine of chrome accents and overstated duck’s tail, the Crossfire suggested American exuberance out of control. The car appeared to be the work of a brilliant student who poured all his ideas into a single car. Any one of the themes might have pleased buyers; together, they only confused. Other design efforts of the union included the Pacifica, Chrysler’s attempt to move beyond the minivan. Mercedes did better with its own version of the idea, the Grand Sports Tourer design study of 2004, which became the R-Class. There were few fresh ideas for Jeep, which did little to expand its claim on the American soul. (Consider what Hummer achieved in the same period.) The minivan franchise, on the other hand, was skillfully maintained even as it shrank. Should A Chinese Car Look Like? DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise DESIGN; Showing Off Cars With Real Curves DESIGN; Body Language: How to Talk the Designers' Talk Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/automobiles/index.html Buy, Sell or Research a New or Used Car – the Wheel | BMW 335i Convertible A Grand Opening for BMW’s Quick-Tanning Machine BMW's first power hardtop goes into hiding in 22 seconds. This convertible from BMW doesn’t rehash the past, and features the first turbocharged gasoline-powered engine sold by the company in the United States. Crash-Test Kudos for 2 Convertibles A New Engine Makes Waves Books Worth a Spot on a Car Buff’s Shelf In any field, there are certain books that are essential. Here is a selection of books that will make a fine foundation for an automotive library. Post a Comment: What Automotive Books Are Must-Reads? TVR’s Long and Winding Road Leads (for Now) to Florida One of Britain’s last sports car makers has risen again after several near-death experiences and ownership changes. 533,000 Miles and It Runs Like a Top Owners of vehicles that have reached 200,000, 400,000 and even 500,000 miles all seem to have pet strategies to extend the lives of their cars. A Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Collectors are abuzz over a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé soon to come to auction. One of about 40 built, the Atalante has not moved from its garage space since 1962. Record Price for a Ferrari: $9.3 Million Slide Show: A Treasure in a Barn The founder of the Build-A-Bear Workshop is backing a new concept called Ridemakerz, a make-and-outfit your own toy car business. Turning Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope A program started in December employs homeless people to collect grease for free from restaurants, and then sell it to a company that converts it to diesel fuel. Behind the Wheel | 2007 Nissan Altima The Pace Picks Up as Act 4 Begins The redesigned Altima gives Nissan a bit of needed sizzle in the crowded market for midsize, midprice front-wheel-drive sedans. Altima Coupe: Fewer Doors, More Drama Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd Slide Show: Comparing Midsize Sedans Share and View Photo Gallery Photos of Your Collectible Car Your Car's Restoration History Other Member's Vehicle Photos and Descriptions Your Comments and Questions Be the First to Test-Drive This New Feature » : Readers submit their own must-read automotive books, and the search for a new racing simulator continues. (Still) Waiting for Gran Turismo The Future of Hydrogen Seventy years after the Hindenberg disaster, the Times tested hydrogen vehicles from three manufacturers. Thirty years after “Smokey and the Bandit” was released, about 200 fans retraced the route traveled in the movie. Airstream: The Concept Travels Well Showing Off Cars With Real Curves Must-Sees at the New York Auto Show At Milepost 1 on the Hydrogen Highway A Two-Wheeled Option (With a Battery) for Commuters What Should a Chinese Car Look Like? Showing Off Cars With Real Curves Earnhardt and Team Penalized for Changes Formula One Rookie Performs Like a Veteran Systems to Prevent Rollovers to Be in All New Cars by 2012 It’s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Bluetooth Plays Matchmaker: M3, Meet MP3 Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Another Angle on the V-Twins A BMW to Ride When a Trip Is Long and Time Is Short Wheelspin: On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Design: From a Bad Marriage, Pretty Babies And Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway Collecting: Fifty, Finned and Fabulous Mayor Plans an All-Hybrid Taxi Fleet California Wants Strict Auto Emission Rules Behind the Wheel | 2008 Audi R8: Growling at the Exotics’ Door Motoring: How’s My Driving? Dial My License Plate Technology: Voice Recognition Closes In on HAL G.M.’s Mr. Horsepower Has an Electric Conversion Chrysler Sale Unavoidable, Chief Says G.M. May Sell a Unit Chen Village Journal: In China, It’s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls Auto Union Leader Finds Comfort Level A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground E-Commerce Report: Web Videos Let Car Buyers Survey Their Many Choices Lincoln MKX: Beyond the Edge Acura MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... Wheelspin: In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing The Count: A Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Greentech: Where There’s Never an Oil Shortage Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Shareholders Give Ex-Chief the Blame for Ford Woes Earnhardt Drops Team Built by His Father to Become a Free Agent Behind the Wheel | 2007 Toyota Tundra: Going Where Toyota’s Never Gone Before Behind the Wheel: Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Obama Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot Motoring: It’s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Hydrogen's Second Coming: A Universe of Promise (and a Tankful of Caveats) Airstream: The Concept Travels Well A house for the road, the sleek silver Airstream has long intrigued Americans as an ideal combination of their twin loves, vehicle and home. Slide Show: Keeping the Shiny Side Up Body Language: How to Talk the Designers’ Talk Stand out among the automotive crowd by using the terms that the professionals do. For starters, never say dashboard. Interactive Graphic: Body Language File a Complaint With NHTSA Vehicle Ratings From IIHS Safety Statistics From IIHS A Special Section: Cars Apparently Americans are not clinging to their big trucks and S.U.V.'s until the last drop of oil dries up. Go to Special Section Comparing Six Hydrogen Vehicles Writer Don Sherman compares hydrogen-fueled vehicles from Ford, Toyota, General Motors, BMW, Mercedes-Benz and Honda. Writer Keith Bradsher on the news, trends and the new models that were revealed at this year's show. Maserati's new 405-horsepower coupe was among many exotic cars on display at the New York Auto Show. Reviews, Dealer Price Quotes & Research Find a Dealer from our Local Marketplace. AUTO MUSEUMS IN THE WEST Here is a list of museums in California, where the car is king, and also in Arizona and New Mexico. Auto Museums in the Western U.S. & Canada Auto Museums in the Deep South Auto Museums in the South Ohio and Michigan Auto Museums New England Auto Museums NEW YORK ZONED DEALER SPOTLIGHT The Lowest Prices Yet! MOST POPULAR - AUTOMOBILES Behind The Wheel | BMW 335i Convertible: A Grand Opening for BMW&#8217;s Quick-Tanning Machine Books Worth a Spot on a Car Buff&#8217;s Shelf Collecting: TVR&#8217;s Long and Winding Road Leads (for Now) to Florida Motoring: 533,000 Miles and It Runs Like a Top Collecting: A Sleeping Beauty Since &#8217;62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Crash-Test Kudos for 2 Convertibles Design: Mazda and Volvo Try on New Genes Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd Airstream: The Concept Travels Well Around the Block: An Over-the-Top Z4 Outsell Light Trucks for First Time Since 2002 Woman Accused of Killing Companion With an S.U.V. the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Pinus Insignis, at Osborne Get the latest business news Looking for a job? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Photos, fine art, books and more. Browse movie reviews from 1913. The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/26/business/26small.html And Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway - Gas Saver Makes Three Cars in the Driveway 2007 DETROIT, May 25 — With gas prices well over $3 a gallon nationwide, many drivers are lining up to buy small cars. Skip to next paragraph Small Cars Are Big Again But hundreds of thousands of consumers aren’t giving up anything to downsize. Instead, they are simply adding pint-size transportation to their driveways, parked alongside their S.U.V. or pickup. In households that own a small car, the family fleet is close to an average of three vehicles, according to CNW Marketing Research, which tracks industry trends (the national average is just over two cars per household; America was a one-car-per-family nation a generation ago). These growing fleets suggest an approach to conservation that is more addition than subtraction. “Small cars are like a fashion statement,” said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing. For three small cars — the and Corolla and the — more than 500,000 were sold last year as second or third cars in a household, CNW data shows. Ken Collinsworth, 53, bought a last month for his daughter to take to college this fall. But with gas close to $4 a gallon near his home in Paso Robles, Calif., Mr. Collinsworth has been driving the Yaris instead of his BMW X5 sport utility and GMC Sierra pickup. “I steal it from her every chance I get,” said Mr. Collinsworth, who added that he would like to get another Yaris when his daughter leaves for college. In another era, he might be pitied for parking one of his luxury cars to drive around in an econobox. But unlike small cars during the disco era, which had few creature comforts, the latest crop of small cars — including the Yaris, — can be purchased with many of the same sought-after options as their bigger kin, like navigation screens or “It is a fundamental change,” Mr. Spinella said. “People are willing to buy small cars because they are more sophisticated.” And buyers appear willing to pay a lot for them. In 1990, buyers stuck to the low end of the scale when they bought a small car, CNW’s data shows. More than three-quarters opted for basic no-frills models, sometimes even forgoing a radio to keep the price down. Now, 90 percent of buyers are buying fully loaded small cars, according to the data. “You look at these cars, and they have 16-inch wheels and a leather-wrapped steering wheel and a high-quality interior,” said A. Andrew Shapiro, a partner in the Casesa Shapiro Group, an auto industry investment and advisory firm. “They aren’t econoboxes, they’re just smaller cars,” Mr. Shapiro added. To be sure, many owners are downsizing from bigger vehicles, and rising gas prices are the primary reason. But others are adding vehicles, also to save on gas (if not the cost of the additional car). Pierre Tremblay, 67, of Howell, Mich., bought a Toyota Prius this month because driving his Dodge Ram pickup 40 miles round-trip to work was costing so much. So far the Prius is getting 55 miles per gallon, compared with 13 for the truck. “I can go to work now, back and forth, on less than a gallon,” said Mr. Tremblay, a maintenance manager for a cement company. “Before it was at least three.” With regular unleaded gas averaging $3.53 a gallon in Michigan this week, according to AAA, that is a savings of over $8 every workday. But Mr. Tremblay was not ready to get rid of his pickup, which he uses to haul a camping trailer. Americans have spent $20 billion more on gasoline so far this year compared with 2006, according to a recent report by the . That works out to about $146 a person, a fraction of what a new car costs. “From a dollars-and-cents point of view, it doesn’t make sense,” said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis for Edmunds.com, a Web site that offers car-buying advice. “There’s no way you’re going to drive it enough to justify the purchase, so it’s more of a psychological decision.” That is particularly true for premium models, like the Mini Cooper, as well as cars in ’s Scion lineup. When decked out with options like aluminum wheel covers and leather seats, their prices can climb well above $20,000, the same as a family sedan or a midsize S.U.V. Even another Yaris would cost Mr. Collinsworth about $13,000 — if he could meet the conditions set down by his wife to buy one. He said that when he broached the subject recently, she replied: “Sell your truck and you can buy one.” Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Canton, Mich. SECOND COMING; Hydrogen's Second Coming China's Automakers, With Beijing's Prodding, Show Alternative-Fuel Cars President Promotes Alternative Energy With a Car Show of Sorts Bush Expected to Make Call For Improved Fuel Economy Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates) &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Louisiana Heron, Plate 217 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/06USED.html?ex=1336104000&en=792ac9c4021c8504&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Certified? Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. - Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Left and top right, Bridget Barrett for The New York Times; Courtesy of Dani K. Liblang Certification for Paulette Day&#146;s Monte Carlo, top right. Left, Ms. Day with her car, which was rebuilt using parts from the front of one Monte Carlo and the rear of another. 2007 GETTING halves of two cars was not what Paulette Day expected when she bought a red 2004 Chevrolet Monte Carlo that year from a dealership near Detroit for $22,000. The car was used, but it was a &#8220;G.M. certified&#8221; car, meaning it had supposedly passed a rigorous inspection by the dealer. As General Motors says in its marketing material, buying a certified car means &#8220;the reliability of new and the affordability of used.&#8221; Not in this case. Ms. Day said she became suspicious about the car after noticing the paint did not match. After a mechanic put the car on a lift and saw the welds, Ms. Day learned that it included pieces from the front of one Monte Carlo and the rear of another, both seriously damaged in crashes. &#8220;I thought being certified, there are supposed to be so many checkpoints to make sure the car is safe,&#8221; she said. &#8220;I think they skipped over all of it. They would have had to notice that.&#8221; Certified used cars have become popular over the last five years, favored by consumers worried about getting a lemon when they buy used. A guarantee from an automaker that the car checks out is peace of mind for which an increasing number of people are willing to pay extra, sometimes $2,000 or more. But some consumers are finding that certified does not protect them and some, like Ms. Day, are filing lawsuits. Robert Minton, a G.M. spokesman, said the automaker would not comment on Ms. Day&#8217;s case. Three telephone calls to the dealership, Rowan Pontiac GMC in Southgate, Mich., were not returned. Automakers said buying a certified vehicle was the next best thing to buying new and that, in general, customers have been pleased with the programs. Indeed, most consumers who buy vehicles certified by automakers say they are substantially more satisfied with their vehicles than those who bought comparable used vehicles, said Art Spinella, president of CNW Marketing Research, a firm in Bandon, Ore., that studies buying habits. Certified vehicles &#8220;pretty much matched the satisfaction numbers you see from new cars,&#8221; he said. Last year, new-car dealers sold about six million used vehicles that were one to four years old. About 1.7 million of those vehicles were certified, he said. Automakers said that more than 100 items were inspected before a vehicle could be certified. Many involve major mechanical components and the frame. However, some of the inspection items are insignificant, like checking windshield-washer fluid, said Jack Gillis, director of public affairs for the Consumer Federation of America. If problems were found, the automakers said they had to be fixed for the vehicle to be listed as certified. Certification programs, which vary from automaker to automaker, usually cover current models and the previous four or five model years. Vehicles must have relatively low mileage, often less than 60,000 miles. The automakers&#8217; provide inspection guidelines and the extended warranty that comes with the certification, for which they charge the dealer several hundred dollars. The dealers conduct the actual inspections and decide how much more to charge the buyer for a certified vehicle. On average, a certified used car costs about $2,200 more than one that is not certified, CNW found. One problem for consumers is that there are no industry standards to define what certified means. Anyone from a major new-car dealer to the owner of a small used-car lot can say a vehicle is certified. Also, most automakers allow vehicles that have been in crashes to be certified if the damage was properly repaired and did not involve damage to the frame. &#8220;So long as the damage has been repaired, most vehicles can be certified,&#8221; said Virginia Y. Calder&#243;n, a San Diego lawyer who often handles complaints about certified cars. &#8220;You always have to be concerned about that.&#8221; In some lawsuits automakers have denied responsibility by saying the dealer &#151; not the automaker &#151; certified the vehicle. Yes. Satisfied? Not Always. Consumer Advocates Seek Uniform Faulty-Car Laws Auto Reliability and Safety Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/01/automobiles/01DESIGN.html?ex=1333080000&en=177705ec60b718dc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Body Language: How to Talk the Designers&#8217; Talk - Language: How to Talk the Designers’ Talk 1, 2007 NEVER say dashboard, not if you want people at the auto show to think you know what you are talking about. Say I.P., for instrument panel, as designers do. Skip to next paragraph Dropping in a mention of the greenhouse or the beltline is pretty easy, but you will really get points with casual references to A-, B-, and C-pillars, the order of the roof supports arranged from the windshield, whose base is called the cowl, to the rear window, or backlight. You might say, “That fat C-pillar would make it impossible to parallel park.” Every profession has its lingo. A list of common terms — and a few of the most colorful ones — can come in handy. With cars, words and metal share territory: each brand’s vocabulary of shapes is collectively known as its design language. The beltline divides the greenhouse, or glassed-in upper body, from the portion that extends down from the window sills. Equally important is the A-line, said Michael Castiglione, principal exterior designer at DaimlerChrysler’s Pacifica studio in Carlsbad, Calif. The A-line runs the length of the body from headlight to taillight, tracing the car’s silhouette. The car may also have a character line, a crease formed in the sheet metal of the sides. Vehicles are said to have styling cues that prompt viewers to recognize models by their resemblance to other family members — a brand’s characteristic shapes and flourishes, the form of its grille or the arc of the roofline. Cumulatively, they make up the D.R.G., or down-the-road graphic of a car, the visual signature of a quickly glimpsed vehicle that should make it recognizable as a Cadillac or a Ford. At the extreme, think . D.R.G. is not to be confused with D.L.O., for daylight opening, the total area of the window glass. The angle of the windshield is known as its rake — an extreme tilt is said to be fast — while the inward angle of the side greenhouse windows is called the tumblehome. The body section below the base of the door, or rocker panel, is treated with a varying degree of turn-under, which Chris Chapman of BMW’s Designworks studio in Newbury Park, Calif., defines as the shape of the panel as it curves inward at the lower edge. The front face of a car is visually grounded in the lower fascia or valance, typically made of plastic these days. Stance is critical to the character a car projects, and its aggressiveness is frequently noted by designers in their presentations at new-model unveilings. The term refers to the way the body sits on the wheels, with energy — or not. Robert Boniface, director of advanced design for General Motors, recently worked on the Chevrolet Volt and Camaro show cars. He said that “stance has to do with the relative visual stability or instability of a particular design.” Cars with good stance are often referred to as being planted; small wheels and a wide upper body give a car a poor stance. Being planted lends a sense of sure-footedness to the design. Too high a stance can suggest standing on tiptoe, a tentative look. One critical element, designers said, is the axle-to-dash ratio, the proportion between the front wheel and the cowl (which is the base of the windshield). It helps to define the visual personality of the car. Another important relationship, according to Bryan Thompson, a car designer at the Nissan Design America studio in La Jolla, Calif., is that between glass and body. “A vehicle whose body is relatively thick compared to the amount of glass is called chunky,” he said. The proportion between wheel and body sizes is important in lending a vehicle its visual personality. “Wheel-to-body is the relationship of the wheel-tire plane to the sheet metal wheel opening,” Mr. Thompson said. “Wheels that are flush to the body are desirable. Wheels that are well inboard of the sheet metal plane are buried. Vehicles with buried wheels are called overbodied.” At its extreme, an overbodied car has the look of a parade float, with the body visually overpowering the wheels, Mr. Thompson said. The distinctive “bathtub” Nashes of the early 1950s suffered this trait. There is also what is called the roller skate effect, where the wheels and tires are too small for the body. (Volkswagens of the 1980s seemed to have especially small wheels proportionally, and fell prey to this phenomenon.) Huge wheels of 20, 22 or 23 inches, by contrast, make a vehicle look tough. Should A Chinese Car Look Like? DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise DESIGN; Showing Off Cars With Real Curves DESIGN; Body Language: How to Talk the Designers' Talk Trade Shows and Fairs Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/nyregion/29ink.html?ex=1338091200&en=eb3c5432c7633ddd&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Turning Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope - Grease to Fuel, and Despair to Hope Earl Wilson/The grease is pumped to a truck that will take it to the North American Biofuels Company on Long Island. It will become diesel fuel. 2007 The back entrance to Barbounia, a restaurant on Park Avenue South, was open and Joseph Presswood dragged out a 55-gallon barrel of cooking oil. He plunged a vacuum hose into the grease as Edgar Rivera flipped on a switch. Thick brown liquid bubbled up through the hose to a container in a truck parked on 20th Street. Skip to next paragraph Earl Wilson/The Ross, a worker for RWA Natural Resource Recovery, picks up used cooking oil at restaurant. Earl Wilson/The Rivera, another RWA worker. After two minutes, all that was left at the bottom of the barrel was an errant appetizer plate, a rock and an uncooked squid that never made it onto a plate of fried calamari. “You can’t just throw grease away,” said Lester Ross, 42, their supervisor. Mr. Ross, Mr. Presswood and Mr. Rivera are employees of RWA Resource Recovery, which is part of Doe Fund Inc.’s Ready, Willing and Able Community Improvement Project, an organization that employs homeless people, many of them former drug addicts or people who have been behind bars. RWA Resource Recovery, a nonprofit group, collects grease from restaurants free and sells it to North American Biofuels Company, a plant in Bohemia, on Long Island, that converts it to diesel fuel. On this day, the men in green jumpsuits had already collected 360 gallons of grease from the ESPN Zone, a restaurant in Times Square. Despite the slippery grime, the stains and the heavy lifting, they all were grateful that they had jobs. Mr. Ross, a former heroin addict, was one of the first workers in the grease-recovery program, which was started in December. “This stuff is dirty,” said Mr. Ross, who earns $13 an hour; Mr. Rivera and Mr. Presswood each make $8 an hour. His face was drenched in sweat and his latex gloves were greasy, but he was content. “I like being a pioneer,” he said. Mr. Presswood, 41, who had been homeless and a cocaine addict, and Mr. Rivera, 40, who had come to the program from jail, seemed pleased to be earning money at a regular job. When the program began, it had three employees, who collected 997 gallons of grease in December. It has grown to six employees, who collected 14,435 gallons in April, said Jonathan Steiman, the project’s manager. There are 154 clients, but the list increases daily, he said. Instead of making the trip to the Long Island plant once a week, workers now make trips every three days or so. In the meantime, the grease is taken to a storage unit in Hunts Point in the Bronx, but is not kept there for long. “You don’t want the stuff sitting,” Mr. Steiman said. While a big part of the project is to recycle restaurant waste into something usable, the truck hauling the grease does not run on biodiesel fuel. The biodiesel would have to be mixed with the petroleum diesel that the truck now runs on, and the group says it does not yet have the resources to mix the fuels. Still, Mr. Ross predicted, “One day, we’ll be picking up grease all over the city.” Correction: June 1, 2007 The Ink feature on Tuesday, about a nonprofit group that collects grease from restaurants at no cost and sells it to a company that converts it into biodiesel fuel, misstated the name of the group. It is RWA Resource Recovery, not RWA Natural Resource Recovery. The article also misstated the reason that the organization does not use biodiesel fuel in the truck that transports the grease. The biodiesel would have to be mixed with the petroleum diesel that the truck now runs on, and the group says it does not yet have the resources to mix the fuels. Vehicles powered by petroleum diesel do not, however, need to be retrofitted to use biodiesel. York Region It Takes More Than Veggies to Make a Kitchen Green GREEN TECH; Restaurant Problem Becomes a Solution Starbucks Will Use Cups With 10% Recycled Paper URBAN TACTICS; Grease Is the Word Recycling of Waste Materials Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline York Region &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/automobiles/autoreviews/27AUTO.html?ex=1337918400&en=5831dcfb0562db51&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Automombiles - Review - 2007 Nissan Altima - the Wheel | 2007 Nissan Altima The Pace Picks Up as Act 4 Begins 2007 Skip to next paragraph Midsize Matchups: How Some of the Newest Family Sedans Compare Another Hybrid in the Midsize Herd Altima Coupe: Fewer Doors, More Drama BACK in 2001, Nissan badly needed a hit to revive its floundering business in North America, and the Altima delivered. The third-generation Altima, transformed from a dowdy, unloved compact into a sleek midsize sedan with sporty handling, brought younger customers to Nissan showrooms and gave the carmaker a serious competitor to the mighty Nissan’s recent woes, a dip in sales and profits, are hardly the sort of crisis that confronted the company six years ago. But Nissan is again turning to the Altima to refresh its image. While the fourth-generation car isn’t as big a leap as the third, this redesigned 2007 model gives Nissan a bit of needed sizzle in the crowded market for midsize, midprice front-wheel-drive sedans. The new Altima sedan is 2.5 inches shorter than last year’s model and it bulges a bit in the fenders, giving the car a more muscular appearance. The almost austere lines of the 2006 model have given way to elegant curves and folds in the sheet metal, along with high-tech-style taillamps and headlight styling that borrows from the Maxima and 350Z. But the passenger compartment is still roomy — indeed, rear legroom has been increased by a few inches. By the same token, the 15.3-cubic-foot trunk is still generously proportioned by the standards of midsize sedans, and the sedan is almost as versatile as a hatchback when its rear seat (split 60-40) is folded down. The model lineup retains the same nomenclature — and more important, the same engines, which are much more than satisfactory. The base 2.5 model, with a 2.5-liter in-line 4 that puts out 175 horsepower and up to 180 pound-feet of torque, comes without air-conditioning or automatic transmission. At $18,575, it is in the lineup as a price leader. The next step up is the value leader, the 2.5S with the same engine and a sticker of $20,425. It comes with disc brakes, halogen headlights, a six-speaker stereo, power windows and locks, air-conditioning and six air bags. It even has an “intelligent key” that needs only to be near the car to unlock the doors and enable the starter. But the great majority of Altimas delivered will come with some of the many available options. First on the list is a continuously variable transmission, or C.V.T., the only automatic available on Altimas ($500). Antilock brakes ($300), a rear spoiler ($360), an electrochromic self-dimming rearview mirror ($280) and fog lamps ($310) can also be had à la carte. But most options for the 2.5S are delivered in bundles. To get the satellite radio you must buy the premium Bose sound system ($1,200). Opting for a navigation system along with the Bose means buying a rearview camera and a Bluetooth phone system ($3,200). To get leather, you must buy a power driver’s seat, power sunroof, alloy wheels, heated front seats, automatic dual-zone air-conditioning ($3,850). So an Altima 2.5S configured just so can get expensive, fast. The Altima’s other trim lines are built around Nissan’s mainstay VQ35 engine, a 3.5-liter aluminum-block V-6 that also powers the Maxima sedan, Quest minivan, Murano crossover and 350Z sports car along with the Infiniti G35 and M35. The Altima’s version of the engine yields 270 horsepower and 258 pound-feet of torque. The Altima 3.5SE, with a power driver’s seat, C.V.T., 17-inch alloy wheels, antilock brakes, fog lights and a better-looking interior than the one in base 4-cylinder cars, costs $25,125. The plusher 3.5SL ($29,015) comes with all the expected goodies: leather, sunroof, automatic climate control, premium sound, xenon headlamps. Those who truly aspire to luxury can spend $2,000 more on a navigation unit, rearview camera and satellite radio (with perhaps the industry’s most maddening satellite radio interface). I drove the 2.5S, 3.5SL and the first-ever Altima Hybrid on the hilly open roads around Santa Barbara, as well as on the mean freeways of Los Angeles, and I was impressed by what a good car Nissan’s midsize sedan has become. Start with the 2.5S, which Nissan expects to constitute more than half of Altima sales. The interior, which in previous incarnations was dulled by acres of economy-grade plastic, is still unlikely to be confused with the cabin of an Audi or a Lexus, but it is now pleasant and airy. The gauges and controls are nicely positioned and the buttons are big. The front seats, built for well-fed Americans, are comfortable, if less supportive than I would have liked on twisty roads. The rear seat, usually an afterthought in midprice sedans, is first-rate. (One glitch has recently surfaced: if the remote keyfob comes in contact with a cellphone, under some circumstances the fob’s coding is wiped out and it becomes useless. Nissan is working on a fix.) Nod to Consumer Tastes, Nissan to Sell Cleaner Cars Again, Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler World Business Briefing | Asia: Japan: Vehicle Sales Keep Falling World Business Briefing | Asia: Japan: Nissan Plans Production Cuts Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13count.html A Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage - Good Summer to Leave the Car in the Garage 2007 The summer forecast for gasoline prices is out. Quick summary: you may want to stay home for your vacation and ask your boss about telecommuting. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Retail prices for gasoline are projected to average $2.95 a gallon, compared with $2.84 last summer, according to the federal Energy Information Administration. A big reason is that global demand for oil is rising. China, for one, is behaving more like a consumer and is starting to use oil supplies the way the United States does. (The nerve!) Add refinery troubles at home and abroad, unrest in Nigeria and declining production from mature oil sources in the North Sea, the Middle East, Mexico and Russia, and you have more gas stations flirting with $3 a gallon. There are ways to ease anxiety about the high price of gasoline. One: Complain about it to Europeans, who pay even more because of taxes. Two: Be aware that new projects in places like the Caspian Sea, the Sakhalin Island, Africa and Brazil are increasing supply. Three: Look at a chart of gas prices adjusted for inflation. You will then realize that prices were actually higher for consumers in 1980. According to the inflation chart, prices were higher in 1920, too. Back then, though, more people had the option of riding a horse to work. PHYLLIS KORKKI Deficit Hits a Six-Month High Retail Sales Fell Sharply Last Month WORLD BRIEFING | AFRICA; Nigeria: Gunmen Seize 4 U.S. Oil Workers Official Who Oversees Gulf Oil Drilling to Retire Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Thompson Over Walton - 1974 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/13DUBAI.html?ex=1336708800&en=37fd63695378ca17&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss In the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing - the Desert Near Dubai, an Oasis for Drag Racing Daryl Visscher for The Emirates Motorplex is about an hour&#146;s drive from Dubai. 2007 UMM AL QAYWAYN, United Arab Emirates Skip to next paragraph Daryl Visscher for The police have cracked down on drag racing on Jumeirah Beach Road in Dubai. LAST month at the Emirates Motorplex, Ahmed Rashid al-Hajji sat in the stands with a small group of friends, quietly sizing up the competition. In March he had been out on the track himself and had planned to be racing in April. “My car was ready until Wednesday night,” he said. “I was tuning my car in my friend’s garage, but there my luck was bad. So, inshallah,” or God willing, “next time.” Not that long ago, Mr. Hajji would have been on Jumeirah Beach Road, a long stretch of highway that runs through Dubai, pitting his souped-up Nissan Skyline GT-R 33 against Lamborghinis and Mercedes-Benz SL55s. But drivers said that a crackdown on aggressive driving by the Dubai police discouraged street racing, so Mr. Hajji’s Skyline sat at home for five months. “Then one of my friends told me, ‘Why don’t you go to the track?’ ” he said, referring to the Emirates Motorplex. He took the suggestion and earned fourth place in his debut run. There are many stories like his at the motorplex, a complex for quarter-mile drag racing deep in the desert of the Umm al Qaywayn emirate (one of the seven that make up the United Arab Emirates), about an hour’s drive northeast of Dubai. Although still relatively off the mainstream radar, the complex has become a safe way for Emirates gearheads to get off local roads to test their mettle on a track instead. The track was created by Sheik Marwan al-Mualla, son of the ruler of Umm al Qaywayn and chairman of the Emirates Motor Sports Federation. He financed the building of the track with his own money, initially as a way for his friends and him to compete against one another. He sees the track as a way to reduce accidents by providing drivers with a safe environment. “We have safety here, paramedics, an ambulance, and we give out trophies to the winners, something they can’t get on the street,” said Sheik Mualla, who no longer races on the track. “So what’s the reason to race out on the main roads?” Depending on whom you ask, Dubai is either a driver’s dream or a nightmare. Dubai is among the few cities of its size — it has a population of about 1.35 million — to have been built almost entirely after the invention of the automobile, which is apparent in the city’s general layout: a kind of Le Corbusien fantasy of skyscrapers, superhighways, sprawling shopping complexes and cities within cities, with little public transportation. Here, driving is a necessity. Cars are more than a means of transportation, however: With a real growth rate in gross domestic product of 10.2 percent in 2006, local Emiratis are making a lot of money, and automobiles are a highly visible expression of wealth, power and ambition. Not surprisingly, this has helped make Dubai a playground for high-octane thrill-seekers once the sun goes down and the traffic thins out. This aggressiveness makes Dubai a dangerous place to drive. Despite some successful efforts, including the recent installation of speed bumps along Jumeirah Beach Road, the Dubai Road and Transport Authority reported that road fatalities had increased by 32 percent from 2005 to 2006, with 312 people killed in Dubai last year. Judging by the stories of the drag racers at the Emirates Motorplex, the idea of competing in front of cheering crowds on Thursdays and Fridays once a month is capturing the imagination of former street racers. Similar factors in Southern California led to a proliferation of drag-racing parks in the 1950s in attempts to rein in street racing. In the U.A.E., this hasn’t meant the end of street racing any more than it did in California, but according to Abdulla Essa, manager of the traffic department of Umm al Qaywayn, there has been a decrease in accidents among young drivers in the emirate over the last four years. The motorplex, which also has tracks for motocross and all-terrain vehicles, has an overwhelmingly local feel. These aren’t your average Pabst Blue Ribbon-drinking spectators — and it’s not simply because there’s no drinking allowed on the premises. PEOPLE: AUTO RACING; Daytona War Tribute Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15Auto.html In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. - Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Illustration by The 2007 AUBURN HILLS, Mich., May 14 — Can private equity investors fix Chrysler for good, and can they avoid a confrontation with the Skip to next paragraph Back Story With Micheline Maynard ( Statement by Ron Gettelfinger, U.A.W. President Micheline Maynard on NPR's Marketplace Micheline Maynard on NPR's Here and Now What should Chrysler do with its cars? A big scalp for private equity. Go to Blog » Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground These are the most pressing questions to arise from the deal announced Monday for Cerberus Capital Management, which specializes in restructuring troubled companies, to pay a total of $7.4 billion to take control of Chrysler, with most of that money to be invested in the newly independent company. By unwinding a nine-year-old merger between Chrysler and Daimler-Benz of Germany, Cerberus is also taking on Chrysler’s $18 billion obligation for health care and pensions for employees and retirees. Any efforts to sharply reduce those perks — which Chrysler can afford but says represent a cost burden of $1,500 a vehicle — will probably put it at odds with the U.A.W. The issue will take on added importance in two months, when the union and Detroit automakers open talks on a new national contract. The union’s position on Chrysler may influence talks with , with the outcome representing the latest chapter in the wholesale restructuring of the American auto industry. For now, the U.A.W. is supporting the deal. Its stance represents a reversal from only a month ago, when Ron Gettelfinger, the union president, warned that an equity player might “strip and flip” Chrysler, selling off its most valuable parts for a quick profit. But based on what the union was told of Cerberus’s plans, Mr. Gettelfinger said Monday that the U.A.W. was “confident enough to say that we support this transaction.” That support may dwindle as the company and the union start discussing specifics. The most obvious way for Cerberus to make money off its investment is to cut costs — especially by reducing the benefits that workers hold sacred, including medical benefits for workers and their immediate families for life, with only modest co-payments or deductibles. “They’re going to want us to give something up,” Tim Preston, 50, a tradesman at Chrysler’s Jefferson Avenue North assembly plant in Detroit, said Monday. Chrysler, in fact, has already tried. Last year, the U.A.W. refused to give Chrysler the same concessions on medical costs that it granted G.M. and Ford, which it deemed in far worse shape. The union also refused to grant deep wage and benefit cuts to the , G.M.’s former parts subsidiary, which had reached agreement to sell itself to Cerberus if a labor deal could be reached. Company and union leaders say those talks are not dead, however. Except for the early 1980s, when the union granted concessions at all three car companies, labor talks have been fruitful for the U.A.W. in recent decades, as it has continued to make gains in wages and benefits even as tens of thousands of jobs have been eliminated. That trend was broken in the last couple of years when the union agreed to buyouts and retirement incentives for workers and agreed to concessions at G.M. and Ford. By showing their support Monday for the Cerberus deal, U.A.W. leaders may have been trying to set the tricky groundwork of making the prospect of concessions palatable to union members as a way to keep Chrysler competitive. “It does promise some creative and maybe not-business-as-usual solutions,” said John Paul MacDuffie, co-director of the International Motor Vehicle Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology No requests have been made of the union yet, but both Mr. Gettelfinger and senior Chrysler executives say there seems to be a meeting of minds. “We have been led to believe that they are very concerned about the American automobile industry,” said Mr. Gettelfinger, who spent four hours with Chrysler executives this weekend being briefed. His reaction was clearly a relief to the Cerberus chairman, , the former Treasury secretary, who joined officials in Stuttgart, Germany, at a news conference on Monday. “We’re going to work to make sure this company succeeds, and as the company succeeds, it will maximize opportunities for workers,” Mr. Snow said. “Our objective is a successful Chrysler and a successful Chrysler creates opportunities.” Some workers, however, were skeptical. “It makes me real nervous,” said Anthony Watson, 36, a chassis assembly worker at Chrysler’s truck plant in Warren, Mich. Richard Burns, 39, an assembly line worker at the Warren plant, just north of Detroit, said he and many of his colleagues did not know much about Cerberus. “We’re scared they’re going to break us up,” he said. Cerberus officials insisted Monday that was not the case. Under the complicated deal, Cerberus will take an 80.1 percent stake in the new company, to be known as Chrysler Holding. Of the $7.4 billion, Cerberus agreed to invest $5 billion in the new Chrysler and $1.05 billion in Chrysler’s financial arm. The remaining $1.35 billion will go to the former German parent company. Nick Bunkley contributed reporting. Kerkorian Makes a Move for Chrysler DETROIT'S SLUMP COULD BREAK UP CHRYSLER GROUP U.A.W. Head Rules Out Concessions Union Organizing Remains Muddled In Chrysler Pact Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Sidewalk Artist - 1949 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/automobiles/03MILES.html?ex=1338523200&en=21b582ca9eb3b942&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss 533,000 Miles and It Runs Like a Top - Miles and It Runs Like a Top 3, 2007 THERE is no one secret to getting your car to live to a ripe old odometer reading. Luck could get you there, but it is no surprise that many vehicles that have reached 200,000, 400,000 and even 500,000 miles have received extraordinary care and maintenance, often with the owners doing the routine work themselves. Skip to next paragraph Lynn L. Walters for The Faeth checks under the hood of his Mercedes. IS IT THE OIL? Patrick Swift uses high-mileage oil in his Chevy van. Many people owning high-mileage vehicles are proud of the accomplishment and they all seem to have pet strategies to extend the lives of their cars. Clyde Thurston of Tallassee, Ala., credited frequent oil and transmission fluid changes for getting his 2002 SLT to more than 220,000 miles. Patrick Swift of Elsmere, Ky., said not taxing the engine and brakes by using cruise control helped his 2000 Chevy 2500-seriesvan reach 533,000 miles. And Loren Faeth of Ames, Iowa, said his 1986 Mercedes-Benz 300SDL ran like new with over 400,000 miles because he changed all the fluids himself. “The commonality I’ve seen among people who drive cars 300,000 or more miles is that they do their own service on the car,” he said. “That way, you know the oil has been changed and it’s changed right.” Whatever strategies owners are using, cars are indeed staying on the road longer. Ashland Inc., which runs the Valvoline Instant Oil Change centers, said it had been seeing more high-mileage cars. Barry Bronson, a company spokesman, said the number of vehicles serviced with 75,000 miles or more rose 8 percent from February 2004 to February 2007. In that same period, he said, there was an 18 percent increase in vehicles with more than 120,000 miles. Automobile repair experts said that while using the right oil and changing it frequently were vital for a car to last that long, little things also help. Michael Florence, a co-author of “The Everything Car Care Book” (Adams Media), said that owners should heed service recommendations and other tips found in their car’s owner’s manual. “Any part of the car that’s supported by lubrication or has fluid in it should be carefully maintained,” said Mr. Florence, an auto mechanic who lives in Flemingsburg, Ky. “Like the brake system. The fluid should be changed every two years because it helps stop corrosion.” He said that spirited driving could also shorten a car’s life. “The more pressure you put on parts, the sooner they’ll break,” Mr. Florence said. His co-author, Rob Blumer, recommended having a mechanic check the timing belt periodically. “If that breaks, it will affect the timing, which can lead to engine damage,” Mr. Blumer said. His rule of thumb utilizes his index finger. “I hold up the middle joint of my finger against the belt, and if I can count three cracks in the belt in that span, it’s time to replace it,” he said. Cosmetic issues can also shorten a car’s life if they are left untended. Mr. Blumer suggested waxing a car twice a year and buying a scratch-repair kit from a dealer. Vladimir Samarin, a mechanic in Toronto who has a car-care Web site at , suggested that drivers living where the humidity was high or the winters were harsh get underbody rustproofing when they buy a new car. He said rustproofing also protected brake lines beneath the car. Relying on oil-change centers to alert owners to chassis problems is a bad idea, Mr. Samarin said, because most companies park the car over a mechanic’s pit instead of raising it on a lift where the wheels can be jiggled to check for loose suspension. And as soon as an engine starts to run hotter than usual or the coolant level drops, he said, check for coolant leaks. “Overheating can lead to real damage,” he said. Mr. Samarin also warned drivers not to overfill their fuel tanks. “Otherwise you could get fuel into the vapor canister,” he said. If that happens, the charcoal in the canister could find its way into the fuel lines and cause damage. “When you get that first click of the gas pump, stop refueling.” Mr. Swift, who owns the high-mileage Chevy van, said one reason it has lasted so long is that he has always used oil designed for high-mileage cars, even when the van was new. Tom Olszewski, Exxon Mobil’s technical adviser for North America for automotive products, said the high-mileage oil category was more than 8 percent of motor oil sales at auto parts stores. He said it was designed to keep engine seals like those around the distributor shaft and the rear main bearing soft and pliable to prevent leaks. But he said using those oils early in a vehicle’s life, as Mr. Swift did, was not necessary. “I wouldn’t say there’s any harm in it,” he said. “I just don’t think you need that kind of protection until the vehicle has seen the mileage.” Mr. Faeth, who has the Mercedes with 400,000 miles on it, takes oil changes very seriously. He recommended that owners who want their cars to last should get a chemical analysis of their used engine oil. The analysis could turn up metal particles and show areas of excessive wear. That knowledge helps determine the optimum grade and formulation of the oil the car needs. Mr. Faeth uses the Oil Analysis Company ( ) of Chester, Va. “Originally, I had hoped to keep it until I got a million miles on it,” Mr. Faeth said about his Mercedes, but he isn’t sure the body will last. “So I’m hoping for one million kilometers.” That would be 620,000 miles. Court Puts Limits On Patents In Nod to Consumer Tastes, Nissan to Sell Cleaner Cars TECHNOLOGY; Engine Sludge: When Good Oil Goes Bad MOTORING; Making Sure the Oil Is Up to the Job Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/collectibles/13FERRARI.html?ex=1336708800&en=7643c20f2c2afb87&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale - Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Courtesy of RM Auctions A 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa. 2007 FERRARI cleans out its garage, so to speak, with an auction at its track near Maranello, Italy, on May 20. You can call it a factory sale or you can call it more grandly the Leggenda e Passione auction, as RM Auctions does. A sale at the factory suggests surplus stacked on the loading dock or samples outside a Seventh Avenue loft. But when the factory is Ferrari’s, you don’t just drive up in your van. Ferrari allowed RM Auctions to handle the sale as part of the automaker’s 60th-anniversary celebration and to call attention to its new services of certifying and restoring vintage Ferraris. The auction is the first sale in Europe for RM Auctions, the Canadian company that is collaborating on this sale with Sotheby’s. The star of the event is a 1962 Ferrari 330 TRI/LM Testa Rossa, the only 4-liter and the last racing Testa Rossa by Ferrari. It was driven by the endurance racers Phil Hill and Olivier Gendebien. The other stars of the sale are cars well known to Ferrari buffs, well traveled to shows and concours and often auctioned. Built in runs of 10 or a dozen, these are cars that buffs know by their chassis numbers. Some are simply legendary pieces of engineering and design, like the most powerful Ferrari of its era, the 1953 Ferrari 340MM, with a 4.1-liter, 300-horsepower V-12. Some are famous for their drivers, like the 1970 Ferrari 512 S raced by Luigi Chinetti’s North American Racing Team twice at Sebring or the 1966 Ferrari Dino 206 SP. An alloy-body competition version of the short-wheelbase 1960 250 GT will also be offered, as well as a prototype of the F40 supercar. Those with a more modest bidding budget will be drawn to the actual garage items — perhaps one of the more than 100 lots of racing memorabilia from the Ferrari archives — the real basement tapes. The show is also aimed to highlight Ferrari Classiche, the specialist division established for documenting, authenticating and restoring vintage Ferraris. In less than a year, it has carried out nearly 500 certifications and restored 84 cars at its workshop. There could be a big headline from the sale. RM may earn bragging rights to the top price ever paid for an automobile sold at auction. the Lamborghini. He&#8217;d Rather Drive a V-8. IN TRANSIT; Touring Italy With the Ferrari Of Your Choice DESIGN; What's New at Pininfarina? The Do-It-Yourself Ferrari High-Speed Crash Leaves Lingering Mysteries Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1961-67 Jaguar E-type Series I Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/29/business/29bear.html?ex=1338091200&en=b9414849a3d98fa4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss After Build-A-Bear, Build-A-Toy-Car - Brough for The Andreini, the entrepreneur behind Ridemakerz, shows off a custom toy car, among many models that customers could make. He is being backed by Maxine Clark, founder of Build-A-Bear. 2007 Lucky for one entrepreneur, the founder of the stuff-and-outfit your own plush animal phenomenon known as never got far on her idea to pursue a build-a-car concept. Skip to next paragraph Briana Brough for The will open its first store this week in Myrtle Beach, S.C. Another is planned in the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. Since 1997, when she opened the first Build-A-Bear workshop in St. Louis, that founder, Maxine Clark, has been besieged with people full of do-it-yourself ideas (make your own books and decorate your shoes, to name a couple.) A few years ago, Ms. Clark herself wrote up a build-a-car business plan, but said she was too busy with bears to do much else than put it on her to-do list. The bears are now available in 300 stores worldwide. In 2005, Larry Andreini, 44, an entrepreneur from Fairfax, Va., with a background in financial services and customer loyalty programs, came calling with a concept called Ridemakerz, a make-and-outfit your own toy car business. “He fit in with our culture,” Ms. Clark said in an interview. “He understood what it takes to bring a brand to reality.” She decided to collaborate with Mr. Andreini in the form of a $3 million investment and an estimated $15 million in back-office support from Build-A-Bear Workshop. The first Ridemakerz store is scheduled to open Friday at an entertainment and retail complex in Myrtle Beach, S.C., followed in July by an outpost at the Mall of America in Bloomington, Minn. “Through the partnership we’re able to see every store performance of every Build-A-Bear,” Mr. Andreini said. “We have access to data that tells us the best place to open our shops.” Fathers and sons make up 70 percent of his target audience. Here’s what they can expect at the Ridemakerz store. Customers select a chassis type (street or monster); body styles (stock or custom, a Ridemakerz brand hot rod, a GT or Dodge Ram pickup, to name a few options); paint schemes; sound effects (for example, sirens or race sounds) and style of locomotion (free wheel or radio control). After the 10- to 12-inch cars are assembled, there are ample customizing and accessorizing options: tire treads, grille guards, side pipes, snowboard racks and decals. Mr. Andreini estimates that a fully tricked-out vehicle will run about $75, including $25 for radio control. For the budget-minded, there’s a stock tuner car for $12. Build-A-Bear has a 25 percent stake in Ridemakerz, a figure that will go up to 30 percent by January, though the companies will remain discrete entities. “There’s tremendous potential here because there’s nothing else for boys out there,” Ms. Clark said. While the do-it-yourself market “hasn’t exploded, it hasn’t faded,” said Sean McGowan, a toy industry analyst and managing director of the brokerage firm Wedbush Morgan. “Build-A-Bear continues to open 30 workshops a year and earns back almost all of its investment in a store in the first year,” he said, “and I can’t think of many other businesses that can say that.” Still, he questions whether there are “as many revenue opportunities” with cars as plush toys. “Hard plastic isn’t as inherently profitable as cloth,” he said, adding that “Ridemakerz has a reasonable shot.” Jim Silver, editor in chief of the magazine Toy Wishes, is more skeptical. “If you want to make a plush animal, there’s nowhere else to go but Build-A-Bear,” he said. “But there are a lot of model kits that let you make your own cars at home. Ridemakerz will be competing with them. “And with a car it’s how you play with it,” Mr. Silver continued. “It’s about the set and the tracks. Ridemakerz doesn’t offer that. Can they succeed? Yes. But it’s a higher mountain than Build-A-Bear had to climb.” &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear Google Keeps Tweaking Its Search Engine Your Money: The 6 Percent Solution: Skip Real Estate Agents Advertising: Publishers Creating Their Own In-House Ad Agencies Career Couch: For the Chronically Late, It&#8217;s Not a Power Trip Everybody Talks About the Weather; All of a Sudden, It&#8217;s Controversial Ping: Genius and Misfit Aren&#8217;t Synonyms, or Are They? A Theme Song for Clinton: &#8216;I&#8217;m a Believer&#8217; vs. &#8216;Cold as Ice&#8217; A Hot-Selling Weapon, an Inviting Target Your Money: Advice to All You Graduates: Let&#39;s Start With That Daily Latte . . . Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Dow Jones Says It Will Consider Options for Sale Grandma Cooks, They Deliver How the Bancrofts Decided to Talk With Murdoch Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Overbooking, Bumped Fliers and No Plan B the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/autoreviews/13AUTO.html?ex=1336708800&en=92a7c26e802adc0e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - Acura MDX - Test Drive - MDX: If It Looks Like a Duck... Begging to be noticed. 2007 ACURA says the exterior styling of its redesigned MDX sport wagon was inspired by high-end yachts, like the Wally Boat. Skip to next paragraph The X Files: Four Luxury Crossovers Really? From a side view, I see the profile of one of those surplus World War II DUKW amphibious craft. Duck Tour, anyone? In considering what the second-generation MDX should look like, Acura’s designers decided to depart from the safe me-too look of most S.U.V.’s. They wanted to make a notice-me statement, and they have certainly succeeded, from the anime-inspired grille to the nautical prow to the hunched haunches. The MDX made its debut as a 2001 model, greatly improving on the poorly received Isuzu-built SLX sport utility that Acura had previously tried to sell. The MDX hit the streets with stellar build quality, quickly built a reliability record to match and gained immediate respect. What it didn’t get was a lot of buyers. Competitors, including luxury sport wagons from German manufacturers, had a decided advantage in overall performance. The MDX was also saddled with comparatively bland styling. Worse, its own stablemate, the similar but less expensive Honda Pilot, poached sales from the same pool of buyers. Still, I considered the MDX a best buy, because it offered perhaps the auto industry’s best array of standard features at an excellent price in the mid-$30,000 range. Initially, the only option was a $2,000 DVD navigation system. For 2007, the base price has passed $40,000, and although the Acura still has an enviable array of standard features, a buyer seeking a loaded MDX must shell out another $8,000 for options. Acura is gambling that it can change minds and buying decisions in the high end of the S.U.V. market where BMW, Porsche and Mercedes play. In the past, MDX buyers were mostly women, who considered the outgoing MDX a comfortable, cushy, bullet-proof people hauler and grocery getter. This new model will probably seem like overkill to them. Now Acura is aiming at men. The MDX has been completely reimagined as a cutting-edge performance machine, with macho styling and a positively Teutonic array of electronic and telematic equipment. The MDX still comes only with a V-6, but the new 3.7-liter engine makes a more competitive 300 horsepower; indeed, this is Acura’s most powerful engine ever — even the discontinued NSX exotic sports car mustered only 253 horsepower. A dual-stage intake manifold and unusually high 11.0:1 compression ratio give the MDX’s engine the punch of a V-8 while sipping fuel like a V-6. In combined city and highway driving, I found it traveled nearly 20 miles on a gallon of premium unleaded. The MDX also still comes with a five-speed automatic that can be shifted like a manual. Although some competitors offer six- and even seven-speed transmissions, the MDX didn’t seem gear-deprived. This year, power is delivered as needed to each wheel through Acura’s savvy Super Handling All-Wheel-Drive system (introduced in the RL sedan), wherein the outside wheels can rotate faster to facilitate cornering. The racetrack-tuned suspension offers switchable sport and comfort settings. A magnetic shock-absorber system, included with the optional Sport Package, includes two-mode active dampers that increase stability and body control in hard maneuvers without ill effects on the ride. The MDX’s quickness and dexterity compare favorably with pricier high-performance rivals like the Porsche Cayenne and BMW X5. What’s more, towing capacity is 5,000 pounds, certainly adequate for a car-based utility. Standard safety equipment includes front air bags, side air bags mounted in the front seats, full-length side curtain bags, active front head restraints, stability control with a stabilizing feature for towing, tire-pressure monitors and antilock disc brakes with brake assist. The brakes, by the way, provided strong, sure stops. The MDX has grown to seven-passenger capacity, with three rows of seats; leather is standard on all MDXs. The power-adjustable front seats are handsome, firm and supportive. The roomy second row, which folds in a 60-40 configuration, has reclining seatbacks and a folding center section that doubles as an armrest with cup holders (in addition to other beverage and gear cubbies in the door pockets and elsewhere). The third row, split 50-50, is fit only for children. REVIEW; Back to the Double Feature Film in Review; Tales of the Rat Fink BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 BMW 328i and 335i; A Lot More Firepower For BMW's 6-Shooter AROUND THE BLOCK; Speed in a Box, From Sweden Acura Division of Honda Motor Co Honda Motor Company Limited Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/us/politics/08obama.html Obama Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy - Criticizes Automakers on Fuel Economy Senator Barack Obama said Monday in Detroit that he wanted to address automakers on their turf with his criticism and his proposals. 2007 DETROIT, May 7 — Senator of Illinois delivered a stern message to Detroit auto companies on Monday, saying they had done little to lessen the nation’s dependence on foreign oil and needed to improve the fuel efficiency of their vehicles. Skip to next paragraph The latest political news from around the nation. Sounding at times like a teacher scolding a lazy but promising student, Mr. Obama at the same time proposed incentives to help General Motors, Ford and Chrysler out of a lingering slump that has resulted in dozens of plant closings and the elimination of tens of thousands of jobs this decade. Appearing before a luncheon held by the Detroit Economic Club, Mr. Obama, a Democratic presidential candidate, received a standing ovation when he was introduced by Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, and again at the close of his remarks, which were broadcast live by local television stations. Mr. Obama, making his first campaign visit to Michigan, said he wanted to be blunt with Detroit auto companies on their home turf. Chief executives of the auto companies were not in attendance. “I’m making this proposal here today because I don’t believe in making proposals in California and giving a different speech in Michigan,” he said. His goal “is not to destroy the industry, but to help bring it into the 21st century,” he said. Under Mr. Obama’s plan, which he said would save 2.5 million barrels of oil a day, he proposed a 4 percent a year increase in fuel economy standards beginning in 2009, or the equivalent of about one mile per gallon per year. By 2022, the fuel economy standard for both cars and light trucks would be 40 miles per gallon, according to the plan. The Bush administration has proposed a similar method to raise the fuel economy standard over the next few years. The current federal standards are 27.5 miles per gallon for cars and 24 miles per gallon for light trucks. While the American standard for cars has not increased in the last 20 years, both China and Japan have higher standards, Mr. Obama said. He maintained that cars in Japan typically achieved the equivalent of 45 miles per gallon. In fact, the average fuel economy in 2006 for cars sold by all manufacturers in the United States was slightly more than 30 miles per gallon, higher than the federal standard requires. But automakers’ overall fuel economy was 24.2 miles per gallon, because light trucks, including S.U.V.’s, pickups and minivans, account for slightly more than half the vehicles sold in the United States. The discussion over the standards accelerated last month, when the Supreme Court ruled that the had the ability to regulate carbon dioxide emissions. The primary way to do so, experts say, is by raising fuel efficiency. Mr. Obama also proposed that fuel efficiency standards for cars be rewritten so that mileage requirements are set according to vehicle size, rather than one sweeping standard for all sizes of cars. The current method benefits Japanese auto companies, whose lineups are not as varied as their Detroit rivals, said Mr. Obama, whose state is home to a Ford assembly plant, as well as one owned by the Japanese automaker Mitsubishi. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration took a similar step this decade in recalculating the fuel economy standard for light trucks. Detroit auto companies have backed that as an option for recalculating fuel economy standards for cars. As a carrot to the industry, Mr. Obama would provide up to $3 billion to Detroit auto companies and their suppliers to retool factories to produce more fuel-efficient vehicles. If the companies invest in these vehicles, Mr. Obama also would offer the Detroit companies assistance in dealing with their burden of paying for current and retired workers’ health care expenses, estimated at $1,500 per vehicle. But a spokesman for G.M., Greg Martin, said the automaker preferred to see a broader approach to soaring health care costs. “Health care is an issue that should be a national priority and not an issue unique to G.M.,” Mr. Martin said. Despite Mr. Obama’s sometimes harsh words Monday, the diverse audience interrupted him 10 times for applause. “I think it took a lot of courage to come to Detroit and lay it on the line,” said Peter Eckstein, a retired labor union economist from Ann Arbor, Mich. Leonard Mungo, a Detroit lawyer, said he was surprised to hear specific proposals for addressing the industry’s problems. “He’s saying, ‘You got yourselves into this mess, but now this is how we get out,’ ” Mr. Mungo said. Nick Bunkley contributed reporting. Scolds and Soothes Automakers Presidential Election of 2008 &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky American Flamingo, Plate 431 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/technology/12text.html Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys - on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys 2007 Do u txt whl drvng? Skip to next paragraph Lars Klove for The you think it should be illegal to send text messages and drive? If you are doing so in Washington State, cease and desist, or risk a fine. Gov. Christine Gregoire signed the nation’s first law yesterday to ban “D.W.T.” — driving while texting with a cellphone, or other mobile device. “Would you read a book or newspaper while you were driving? No!” Governor Gregoire said. “Then why would you text while driving?” New Jersey is asking, too. The Legislature is considering a bill to outlaw D.W.T. (one of its sponsors, Paul D. Moriarty, admitted to sometimes using his BlackBerry while driving). Some states already ban talking on a cellphone behind the wheel unless a headset is used, and Washington joined that group yesterday. But while reading or other distracting activities may not actually be illegal behind the wheel, more legislators seem to be worried about the danger of multitaskers tapping away without coming to a stop. Mobile texters in the United States sent 158 billion messages last year, up 95 percent from 2005, according to industry statistics. There is no data on how many are typed or read by drivers, or how often the activity leads to collisions. There are, though, documented cases of texting-related crashes, including one that prompted the law in Washington. A driver, apparently fixated on his BlackBerry, slammed his van into the car in front of him last December, causing a five-vehicle pileup, state officials said. Not everyone advocates legislation. Jonathan Adkins, spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association, said that such laws, while well intended, were difficult for police to detect or enforce. In Washington, the penalty for D.W.T. is a $101 fine (the proposed fine in New Jersey is $250). But the crime is a secondary offense, meaning a driver must be pulled over for some more grievous infraction. “There’s a challenge for law enforcement,” Governor Gregoire said. For some, the greater challenge may be to exercise impulse control on the road. James Katz, director of the Center for Mobile Communications Studies at , says he doubts that many multitaskers will keep both hands on the wheel. “Only the most angelic drivers,” he said, “will be able to resist the temptation.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/02/automobiles/02auto.html?ex=1335758400&en=e45d2db87e68aa00&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot - Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot The Ford Edge crossover vehicles, introduced late last year, sat on a dealer&#146;s lot in Detroit in February. The vehicle has failed to generate the sales that Ford&#146;s big sport utility vehicles once did. 2007 DETROIT, May 1 — Is the Edge giving Ford the edge it was hoping for? Skip to next paragraph At the very least, the new crossover vehicle is keeping sales at the Ford Motor Company from dropping even more than they already are this year, at a time when the company is pulling back on unprofitable sales to rental-car companies. Ford is meeting the expectations it set for the Edge when the vehicle went on sale in December. But the Edge is not generating the revenue of the big sport utility vehicles that once fueled Ford’s profits, and it is not drawing the new customers that the company will need to bounce back from its worst loss in history — $12.7 billion last year. Ford’s falling sales have allowed the Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan to replace it as the second-largest seller of vehicles in the United States, after General Motors, through the first four months. And there is the question of buzz: Ford has pulled out all the stops to promote the Edge, with television ads directed by the playwright David Mamet in its latest attempt to get attention for the vehicle. Yet there are already lease deals available for the Edge, and some Ford insiders are concerned that its price, which starts at $25,995, is too high to sustain current sales levels once the vehicle’s novelty wears off — further proof that in today’s ultra-competitive car market, automakers have only a brief window to make a splash. Since arriving at dealerships in December, the Edge has been one of the few bright spots for Ford. On Tuesday, when automakers reported sales for April, Ford said its overall sales in April fell 7 percent on a selling-day adjusted basis; a distinction made because a year ago, there were two more selling days in April. Without the Edge and two other new crossovers in its lineup, Ford’s decline last month would have been 12 percent, the worst among major automakers. Ford has sold 33,600 units of the Edge so far this year, on pace for its goal of selling 100,000 units in all of 2007. But the company’s chief sales analyst, George Pipas, said many of those had been bought by people who already owned Fords. “The products that are most traded in are other Ford products,” Mr. Pipas said. “It’s retaining Ford buyers who were in traditional S.U.V.’s that are moving into another category.” To be sure, Ford needed vehicles that could keep its customers from defecting to other brands, particularly as high gasoline prices lead consumers to seek more fuel-efficient vehicles. But the Edge alone can do little to help Ford reach its goal of earning a profit in North America by 2009. “Crossovers are not the cash cows that the Ford Explorers and Expeditions were,” said Ron Pinelli, president of the Autodata Corporation, the industry research company based in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. “There’s just not enough volume there for Ford to make up for what they’ve lost,” Mr. Pinelli said. “Even if the Edge is doing incredibly well, the profit contribution isn’t going to be terrific, and there aren’t going to be enough of them to move the scale from the loss side to the profit side.” The Edge was not enough to stop Ford’s market share from falling to 17 percent from 18 percent a year ago, according to Autodata; the decline was the largest among all major automakers. G.M.’s market share slipped to 23 percent from 23.5 percent, while the Chrysler Group had a rare increase, to 14.4 percent from 13.1 percent. Toyota leads all automakers in worldwide sales. Chrysler, which could be sold in the coming months by its German parent, DaimlerChrysler, surprised analysts by saying its April sales rose 10 percent. Chrysler executives attributed the gain to a well-organized incentive program, including free DVD players in its minivans and discounts on the Dodge Ram pickup, as well as a successful 96-hour sale at the end of the month. “We were just very fortunate to catch the wind when we did in April,” said Steven J. Landry, Chrysler’s executive vice president for North American sales and global marketing. “We had a very strong close.” Meanwhile, Japanese automakers had an uncharacteristically weak month, with Honda’s sales down 1.6 percent and Nissan’s down 11.2 percent. Toyota posted a 3.7 percent sales increase, its lowest year-over-year gain since August 2004. Although Ford came in slightly ahead of it for the month, Toyota has sold nearly 5,000 more vehicles than Ford so far this year. Yet there are signs of some bumps in the road for Toyota, like an inventory that has grown 30 percent in the last year. Many of those unsold vehicles may be the new Tundra pickups; Toyota has sold about 43,000 Tundras since the truck went on sale in February, well below the pace needed to reach its goal of selling 200,000 this year. But because the Tundra makes more money for Toyota than the Edge does for Ford, the Edge cannot necessarily be called the more successful of the two. Still, Ford and its dealers say they are thrilled with the Edge. Mr. Pipas of Ford said it was competing well against crossover models from Toyota, Honda and Nissan. “The sales levels, really coming from having no brand recognition, are kind of in the same sandbox as three really great products that have established themselves over the course of several years,” Mr. Pipas said. “I don’t know if I thought we could get there that soon.” Ron Christiano, general manager of Cortese Ford in Rochester, said customers liked the Edge because it used less gas than an S.U.V. The Edge increased traffic to the dealership more quickly than Ford’s Fusion sedan, which has sold well since its introduction in 2005, he said. Correction: May 4, 2007 A picture in the auto sales chart in Business Day on Wednesday was published in error. It showed a Nissan Altima Coupe, which is not on the market yet, rather than the Altima sedan, which had a 12.4 percent drop in sales in April. (The error first occurred in the sales chart on Jan. 4.) Crossover Helps Ford, but Not Enough to Hold Its No. 2 Spot Ford Cut Loss In Quarter; U.S. Sales Fell Ford Chief Sticking to His Road Map for Turnaround Asia's Automakers Show Sizable March Sales Gains Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/16/world/asia/16tolls.html In China, It&#8217;s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls - China, It’s Not Always Clear for Whom the Booth Tolls Du Bin for The Chen Village, Mr. Wang, right, and Mr. Gu guard a barrier set up on a local road to deter out-of-town motorists from evading the toll on a nearby highway. 2007 CHEN VILLAGE, China — Few motorists in any country brighten at the sight of tollbooths ahead. In China, which is building more toll roads than any other country in the world, legions of drivers are trying almost anything to avoid them. Skip to next paragraph Du Bin for The a highway two miles from Chen Village, vehicles must stop at this toll station. To avoid paying, drivers often detour through the village. In Chongqing, a sprawling municipality in central China, so many owners of private cars and trucks are using fraudulent toll-exempt military plates that one toll highway has estimated its annual losses at roughly 10 million yuan, or $1.2 million. In March a driver outfitted his vehicle like an ambulance, with flashing lights and an emergency response phone number painted on the side. He then raced through a highway tollbooth as if rushing to a hospital, until the police arrested him. For centuries, commoner and collector have waged a volatile contest in China that has occasionally toppled dynasties but never quite been resolved. Leaders of the current dynasty, the Communist Party, are worried enough about angry peasants that they lifted the centuries-old agriculture tax as a populist gesture. Tolls are another matter. By 2020, if all goes as planned, China will have completed almost 53,000 miles of expressways, a network roughly equivalent to the Interstate System in the United States. China considers expressways crucial to maintaining its economic growth and developing its western and interior provinces. But the cost is so exorbitant that China is financing much of the system with tolls that are, by Chinese standards, pricey. Two people who should know are Mr. Wang and Mr. Gu. The two men — who were nervous about divulging their first names to a snooping foreigner — are posted at a dingy intersection in this farming village in Hebei Province. Not far away is a highway tollbooth. Every day cars and heavy trucks, as steady and determined as a trail of ants, try to skip the toll by cutting through the village on a narrow road. Mr. Wang, 65, and Mr. Gu, 58, try to send them back. They say the tollbooth operator is paying the village a monthly fee to help crack down on toll jumpers. For its part the village is trying to stop heavy trucks from ruining its roads. The two men regulate traffic with a long, crooked stick that goes up and down like a crude crossing barrier. Mr. Gu does the talking. Mr. Wang wields the stick. “Can I get through?” one motorist asked on a recent afternoon as other cars waited. “No,” Mr. Gu replied. Only local people are allowed to pass. “Is there any other way around the toll?” the driver asked, smiling. “Come on, let me through.” Toll road building has been so feverish in China that roughly 25,000 miles of toll expressways were built from 1990 to 2005, according to the . At the same time, the country has been adding millions of new cars to the roads every year, a seemingly perfect combination of vehicles and toll roads. But Chinese are famous economizers, and beyond that, tolls are expensive compared with income levels. A recent World Bank report on China’s highway construction program found that the toll roads were charging roughly the same as the German toll system — about 25 cents a mile for trucks — despite far lower incomes in China. It costs $1.30 to go from the Beijing airport to the city, and about $5 for the roughly 25-mile trip from the capital’s northeastern suburbs to the Great Wall. Not all that much for a Westerner, but a lot here, where an average farmer — most of whom cannot afford cars — makes less than $400 a year and urban factory workers can average roughly $1,000 or perhaps a bit more. “The price of the tolls is an issue,” said Greg Wood, a consultant who worked on the World Bank report. Mr. Wood said China needed to ensure that prices did not inhibit traffic from growing to the levels necessary to pay off the debt on the roads. As toll roads have expanded, many areas nearby have become toll escape zones. Mr. Wood said some private companies investing in toll roads were demanding the right to collect tolls on adjacent roads as one means of curbing toll jumpers. On the outskirts of Beijing it is common to see lines of trucks stretching for several miles along a narrow two-lane highway as they try to avoid the toll on the faster highway nearby. Bumpy Ride on a Brazilian Highway, and Long Waits at Either End In Chinese Boomtown, Middle Class Pushes Back World Briefing | Asia: China: Sometimes You Can't Teach An Old Dog Guangzhou Journal; First Comes the Car, Then the $10,000 License Plate &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky WHEN THE WALL CAME DOWN Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15lasorda.html?ex=1336881600&en=44273ee75ca61998&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground - Chief With Union Roots Enters a Proving Ground 2007 He comes from a long line of unionized autoworkers, but Thomas W. LaSorda’s collar is unmistakably white. Skip to next paragraph Thomas W. LaSorda once worked on Chrysler&#146;s assembly line. News Analysis: In Deal, a Test for the U.A.W. Cerberus Goes Where No Firm Has Gone Before A Corporate Divorce on the Cheap As chief executive of Chrysler for the last two years, he has spoken of the benefits of sending work to Mexico. He has signed off on a plan to cut Chrysler’s work force by 13,000 and close all or part of four plants by 2009. And now he has proclaimed his confidence that private equity can rescue Chrysler, despite serious reservations among the rank and file. “Tom is the chief executive officer,” said Basil E. Hargrove, the president of the Canadian Automobile Workers union, who has known Mr. LaSorda’s family for decades. “I was under no illusions about what that meant. It meant that he was a guy we could talk to. But it didn’t mean there wouldn’t be cutbacks or layoffs.” His family’s history has been tightly bound to Chrysler’s since before he was born. His grandfather, Harry Rooney, helped organize Chrysler workers in Windsor, Ontario, in the 1940s, despite the company’s attempts to throw him in jail. Mr. LaSorda’s mother, Bea, used to stand watch for Chrysler company men as her father signed up workers in their basement. Frank LaSorda, Thomas’s father, also a Chrysler employee, eventually became president of the same Windsor union local that his father-in-law helped start. In all, three generations of LaSordas and Rooneys have been union leaders, electricians, janitors and line workers at Chrysler. Thomas LaSorda, who as a teenager worked on the assembly line but has otherwise spent his entire career on the business side of the auto industry, has vowed to “turn over all the rocks” at Chrysler to determine where cuts can be made. Now he has a new management team looking over his shoulder that will want to see that those cuts are made as efficiently as possible. Chrysler said yesterday that Cerberus Capital Management, the New York private equity firm, was buying a controlling stake for $7.4 billion. Mr. LaSorda must now answer to a board that he could find even more impatient than “Private equity is not a benevolent association,” said David E. Cole, chairman of the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich. “You know where these guys come from. It’s an association of people who have dedicated themselves to making money.” Mr. LaSorda seemed to send a signal to workers yesterday that Cerberus was not buying Chrysler to slash and burn it. “There are no new job cuts planned in connection with this transaction,” he said in a written statement. Some experts said that being bought by a private equity firm with considerable liquidity gives Chrysler — and Mr. LaSorda — some time. “This is not a buy and dump situation,” said George Magliano, director of North American automotive research for Global Insight. “There’s got to be some patience here.” Thomas T. Stallkamp, a former Chrysler president who is now a partner in the New York private equity firm Ripplewood Holdings, said that Cerberus appears to be willing to give Mr. LaSorda a shot at running the company. “I think he’s gotten a little bit of a reprieve, and maybe he can run his own show,” Mr. Stallkamp said. “I think that’s the way most private equity firms operate. They don’t come in and parachute in new management right away. He’s been fettered by being under the wing of DaimlerChrysler bureaucracy, so they’re going to see what he can do on his own.” If the deal goes through, Mr. LaSorda is entitled to severance benefits worth $4.26 million for leaving the DaimlerChrysler board — twice the sum of his salary and annual bonus, according to an analysis of securities filings by James F. Reda and Associates. Mr. LaSorda’s pension will also be bolstered by two extra years of service credit. Eric Dash contributed reporting. &#x00bb; Get for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. Acquisitions and Divestitures &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear Google Keeps Tweaking Its Search Engine Your Money: The 6 Percent Solution: Skip Real Estate Agents Advertising: Publishers Creating Their Own In-House Ad Agencies Career Couch: For the Chronically Late, It&#8217;s Not a Power Trip Everybody Talks About the Weather; All of a Sudden, It&#8217;s Controversial Ping: Genius and Misfit Aren&#8217;t Synonyms, or Are They? A Theme Song for Clinton: &#8216;I&#8217;m a Believer&#8217; vs. &#8216;Cold as Ice&#8217; A Hot-Selling Weapon, an Inviting Target Your Money: Advice to All You Graduates: Let&#39;s Start With That Daily Latte . . . Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Dow Jones Says It Will Consider Options for Sale Grandma Cooks, They Deliver How the Bancrofts Decided to Talk With Murdoch Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Overbooking, Bumped Fliers and No Plan B the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/autoreviews/06AUTO.html?ex=1336104000&en=fe2c9eb38f4d9925&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Review - 2007 Toyota Tundra - Test Drive - the Wheel | 2007 Toyota Tundra Going Where Toyota’s Never Gone Before The 2007 Toyota Tundra Double Cab. 2007 LAST year, when Nathalie Guiraudet heard that Toyota was making the next-generation Tundra much bigger, she began to fret about her vehicular future. Skip to next paragraph She thought the size of her 2002 Tundra was perfect for her needs. She could haul plenty of hay for her horse, Kismet. It was easy to back up (the truck, not Kismet) and the fuel economy was acceptable (both the Tundra and Kismet). But Toyota has its own needs, and these include growth. By finally offering a pickup big and powerful enough to compete with the Ford F-150 and the Chevrolet Silverado, Toyota says it might double Tundra sales, which totaled an unimpressive 124,500 in 2006, just a fraction of what Chevrolet or Ford sold. While Ms. Guiraudet, who lives in Bethlehem, N.H., a town of 2,300 about 150 miles north of Boston, did not wish to interfere with Toyota&#8217;s apparent plan for galactic domination, she was dismayed. &#8220;It is like every good television show I ever liked,&#8221; she said. &#8220;It gets taken off the air.&#8221; So she responded to Toyota&#8217;s plan with a pre-emptive purchase: she bought a 2006 Tundra Access Cab. Now the 2007 Tundra is on sale, assembled at plants in Indiana and Texas. The new model is about 5 inches taller, 4 inches wider and 10 inches longer than its equivalent predecessors. Gone is the front-end styling so reserved it suggested a meek effort to assimilate, not cause trouble. The 2007 design could not be more confrontational if it had revolvers mounted on the fenders like one of Roy Rogers&#8217;s cars. For Tundra, three is a recurring theme. There are three bed sizes, three cabs and three engines. The standard bed is 6-foot-7; the long bed is 8-foot-2; and the short bed is 5-foot-7. There is a Regular Cab with comfortable seating for two and a surprising amount of cargo space behind the seats. The Double Cab has just enough room for four six-foot adults to be comfortable; access to the rear is through short forward-hinged doors. Last is the four-door CrewMax, imposing because the cab is so large it suggests an auditorium on wheels. Inside there is so much room it feels more like a large sport utility than a pickup. Its amazing 44.5 inches of rear legroom is almost 10 inches more than the Double Cab&#8217;s, making it entirely suitable for family transportation. A 236-horsepower 4-liter V-6 is available, but only on two-wheel drive Regular Cab and Double Cab models. With a five-speed automatic, it is rated at 17 m.p.g. in town and 20 on the highway, which is less than last year. A 4.7-liter V-8 is rated at 271 horsepower at 5,400 r.p.m. and 313 pound-feet of torque at 3,400 r.p.m. It comes with a five-speed automatic. Despite the increase in the Tundra&#8217;s size, the fuel economy estimate is unchanged from last year: 15 m.p.g. city and 18 highway for a four-wheel drive. New this year is a 5.7-liter V-8 rated at 381 horsepower at 5,600 r.p.m. and 401 pound-feet of torque at 3,600 r.p.m. It comes with a six-speed automatic. Demand for this engine &#151; more than 70 percent of new Tundras have it &#151; has been greater than expected. With four-wheel drive, this engine is rated at 14 m.p.g. city and 18 highway. I averaged 18 m.p.g. on a 239-mile Interstate cruise at 65 m.p.h. Prices on the Tundra start at $22,935 for a two-wheel drive Regular Cab. The least expensive four-wheel-drive model is a Regular Cab, at $27,125. The most expensive Tundra is $42,495: that&#8217;s the CrewMax with four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The Tundra&#8217;s base prices are high compared with the new Chevrolet Silverado&#8217;s. But the Tundra offers more standard equipment on base models, including life savers like an electronic stability control to deal with skids and side curtains to provide head protection in a side-impact crash. My test truck was a Double Cab in the midlevel SR5 trim. It had the standard bed, four-wheel drive and the 5.7-liter V-8. The base price was $31,805. Options included an upgraded stereo and power front seats, bringing the total to $34,648. Toyota says the design and engineering were done in the United States, so it is not surprising that the front seats are wide American-size berths. for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. THE WHEEL/2007 Toyota Tundra; Going Where Toyota's Never Gone Before Toyota Deepens Discounts on Its New Pickup Redesigned Toyota Pickup to Cost More Than Rivals' Trucks Bush Expected to Make Call For Improved Fuel Economy Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/automobiles/collectibles/03TVR.html?ex=1338523200&en=10a278fc22b26a78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss TVR&#8217;s Long and Winding Road Leads (for Now) to Florida - Long and Winding Road Leads (for Now) to Florida A 1964-65 TVR Griffith 200. 3, 2007 LIKE the mythical Monty Python castle built on a swamp, which sank three times only to be rebuilt three times, one of Britain’s last sports car makers has risen again after several near-death experiences and ownership changes. The company, TVR, would fit neatly in the comedic Python world, where cheese shops have no cheese to sell and hyper-litigious businessmen accidentally sue themselves. Consider its recent history: its third owner since 1981 was a 20-something Russian who actually owned the company twice in three years. The latest owners are two Florida men, Adam Burdette and Jean-Michel Santacreu, who took control of TVR in February. Although neither man has run an auto company — Mr. Burdette had been a car importer and Mr. Santacreu a hotel consultant — they have already lined up suppliers and made plans to sell the cars in the United States beginning in 2008. Their flagship model is an evil-looking 380-horsepower car that the previous owner had introduced. That owner, Nikolai Smolenski, 26, a Russian banker who once ran his father’s banking group, had also never managed a car company. He bought TVR in July 2004, but lost control in 2006 to bankruptcy administrators — who sold it back to him in February. Less than a week later, he sold the company to Mr. Burdette and Mr. Santacreu. Like its corporate history, TVR’s models were always a little odd, but they were often exciting hand-built sports cars. The company, which was based in Blackpool, England, took its name from three letters in the first name of its founder, Trevor Wilkinson. The first TVR was built in 1947. A small number of club racing specials came in the next decade, but production did not really begin until the late 1950s when TVR hit on this formula: a light fiberglass body mounted on an even lighter tubular space frame. Early TVRs were sold in two forms, as finished cars and as kits. But even the factory-built cars resembled kit cars, with fit and finish reminiscent of a high school shop project. It scarcely mattered because most early TVRs became racecars anyway. The most exciting early TVR was created by Jack Griffith, a Long Island car dealer. Having seen what Carroll Shelby did with the Cobra, he put a Ford small-block V-8 into the TVR Grantura. At just 1,850 pounds and with up to 271 horsepower, the car was sensationally fast. Unfortunately, with a wheelbase of just 85.5 inches and suspension, brakes and rear end scarcely changed from the four-cylinder car, the Griffith 200 was badly balanced and hard to control. To make matters worse, the cars overheated and the tremendous torque of their engines often broke axles, causing wheels to fly off. Even with all four wheels attached, Griffiths were nearly uncontrollable. In 1965, Martin Lilley, who was 23 at the time, bought TVR after a dock strike in New York nearly bankrupted the company. Mr. Lilley discontinued the Griffith, but not before trying to tame the car, renaming the new version the Tuscan V-8. Road & Track magazine still called the car “a ferret with an oversupply of Y chromosomes.” Mr. Lilley’s 16-year stewardship of TVR was quite positive. In 1972, he introduced what would become the most popular model up to then, the 2500M. Along with Mr. Lilley, Gerry Sagerman, the United States distributor from 1966 to 1980, set up a network of more than 30 dealers and was selling around 75 percent of TVR’s total production. Sales usually totaled 500 to 600 cars a year, mainly the 2500M. The American effort was hindered, Mr. Sagerman said, because the factory could not make enough cars to meet demand and the company was unable to get emission certification in California, which should have been TVR’s largest American market. Mr. Sagerman showed a new convertible model, the 3000S, at the 1978 Los Angeles Auto Show, but the reaction scared him. “People were literally pushing money in my face trying to buy the cars,” he said in an interview last month. “I knew that there was no way we could satisfy even a fraction of the demand.” A Sleeping Beauty Since &#8217;62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback COLLECTING; Fifty, Finned and Fabulous Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale Forget the Lamborghini. He'd Rather Drive a V-8. Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1955-62 MGA Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/automobiles/autoreviews/03AUTO.html Reviews - BMW 335i Convertible - Test Drive - Automobiles - The Wheel | BMW 335i Convertible A Grand Opening for BMW’s Quick-Tanning Machine BMW's first power hardtop goes into hiding in 22 seconds. 3, 2007 DRIVING a BMW 3 Series after some time away is like being reunited with a favorite band. The in-line 6 sounds its opening notes and you think, “Hey, I remember that song.” Skip to next paragraph Crash-Test Kudos for 2 Convertibles A New Engine Makes Waves The car picks up the tempo and glides through a tricky two-lane passage, and your hips shimmy right along. As the performance approaches a lighter-waving climax, you’re reminded that, among sport sedans, the 3 Series is like Dylan or the Clash: the one you can always come back to. Of course, a company doesn’t keep a car on top for 30 years by rehashing the past, but through regular reinvention. The Bangle school of styling that so provoked BMW purists (their motto: forever square) with its restless kinks and bulges, has grown into a mature, often-imitated style that can no longer be casually dismissed. The look definitely flatters the 3 Series. It was liberally applied to the fifth-generation sedan for 2006. A coupe soon followed, along with a welcome rarity, a wagon as fun and shapely as it is practical. On an unreasonably cold spring morning, I pulled on a wool hat to avoid spoiling my first date with the luxurious 335i convertible. Starting at $49,875, it is the most expensive and style-conscious of the current 3 Series lineup. (A new limited-edition 420-horsepower M3, featuring the first V-8 ever installed in the series, will top the range later next year). Having failed for years to outhandle and outfinesse the BMW, the competition has been trying to hammer it into submission. The best of the budget alternatives is Infiniti and its recently redesigned G35. A more powerful G37 coupe — on sale in August, with a sedan version to follow — will develop a class-leading 330 horsepower from a 3.7-liter V-6. Such V-6 engines take up less space than in-line sixes of the same displacement. And BMW could no longer stretch its smaller, 3-liter in-line 6 and still fit it under the 3 Series hood. So to keep the sport-sedan stalkers at bay, it had to whip out the automotive version of pepper spray: a pair of quick-spooling turbochargers boost the direct-injection 6 to a nice round 300 horsepower and 300 pound-feet of torque. Even the burly new M3 with the V-8 will produce 5 less pound-feet of torque (295) than the turbo models. That makes the 335i the first turbocharged gasoline-powered BMW sold in the United States. The engine makes a vocal argument to being the best turbo powerplant this side of a $130,000 Porsche. Free-spinning and seamless, it evinces none of the power lag or spiky peaks you expect from turbochargers, achieving peak torque at a low 1,400 r.p.m. The result is a 3 Series that feels roughly as quick, but less high-strung, than the current-generation M3 (rated at 333 horsepower). For the new convertible, BMW cites a snappy 5.5-second run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. when equipped with the terrific six-speed manual transmission — only two-tenths of a second behind the 335i coupe. If you don’t want to pump a clutch pedal, the $1,275 six-speed Steptronic is among the fastest and smoothest automatics around; don’t forget to throw in $100 for paddle shifters. Trusty brakes feature every imaginable technology, including a self-drying feature that ensures that they are always ready for action on a puddly day. The brakes automatically keep the car from rolling backward when you’re starting off on an uphill slope, a feature every luxury car should consider. Blessedly, the 3 Series can be ordered without the iDrive systems interface and its dreaded rotary control knob. And the Active Steering — which adjusts steering ratios to make for easier parking and supposedly better handling — is another option whose price, $1,400, isn’t justified by the benefits. For style, speed and handling you can see and feel, choose instead the $1,300 sport package. It adds a firmer suspension, sport seats with power adjustable side bolsters and handsome 18-inch wheels with sticky run-flat performance tires. It also raises the top speed limitation to 150 m.p.h., compared with just 130 m.p.h. without the package. for Some Ailing Cars Chrysler Sale Unavoidable, Zetsche Says DESIGN; BMW's Shanghai Surprise MOTORING; Service Bulletins Help Plug the Leaks the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Sardinian Centenarian - 2003. Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/06/automobiles/06CARF.html?ex=1336104000&en=eebca09400a26c57&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss It&#8217;s the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth - the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth Thad Allender for the P. Wolfe found that his used Honda had been badly damaged in an accident, which a Carfax report failed to mention. 2007 AN Ohio judge will decide on Friday whether to approve the settlement of a class-action suit against Carfax in which consumers could receive coupons worth about $20 and the lawyers representing them $566,000. The suit claims that Carfax, which sells vehicle histories to consumers worried about buying used cars, deceived customers by concealing the limits on the information it collects about crash damage. Some consumer groups oppose the settlement, saying consumers get no meaningful compensation and Carfax is not being forced to make clear in what way its information is limited. "Carfax wins the most," said Ronald Frederick of Cleveland, one of several lawyers who have filed a brief objecting to the settlement on behalf of Carfax customers and the Center for Auto Safety. William B. Federman of Oklahoma City, one of the lawyers who filed the suit and reached the agreement with Carfax, said consumers would be receiving the best possible deal because of a legal technicality that could have resulted in the court dismissing the lawsuit, which would have forced each consumer harmed by Carfax to file an individual suit. Carfax agreed to the settlement, but has denied wrongdoing. "Nowhere do we claim we have every accident," said Larry Gamache, a Carfax spokesman. "We can't even get our heads around how many accidents happen in the United States. There are a significant portion that go unreported." The suit claims that Carfax leads consumers to believe they are getting a thorough check of a vehicle's history, but Carfax did not have access to police accident reports "in almost half of the states in the United States." Indeed, in a deposition taken in 2003 by Rob Treinen, a lawyer from Albuquerque, for an unrelated suit, George C. Bounacos, Carfax's vice president for customer operations, said at that time that the company was getting police accident reports from about only half of the states. The class-action suit said Carfax did not receive reports from Alaska, Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Mississippi, Nevada, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington and West Virginia. Mr. Gamache, the Carfax spokesman, said Carfax had improved its data collection since the suit was filed in 2004. "We get information contained in police accident reports from all these states," he said. As part of the proposed settlement, consumers who bought a report from Carfax before Oct. 27, 2006, when the settlement got preliminary approval by the court, would receive a coupon that provides them with two free Carfax vehicle history reports in the first year after final approval of the settlement or one free report within two years. Clarence M. Ditlow, executive director of the Center for Auto Safety, an advocacy group based in Washington, said the settlement did not give consumers anything to compensate them for their problems and financial losses. One of the consumers objecting to the settlement is David P. Wolfe of Lawrence, Kan. "It is like giving me nothing." Mr. Wolfe said he bought a Honda Civic in Texas relying on a Carfax report. A Honda dealer told him later that the car had been so badly damaged in a crash it was not safe to drive. Mr. Wolfe said he did not want the coupon. Should the settlement be approved, Carfax customers who purchased reports before Oct. 27, 2006, would lose the right to sue the company, except those who have already written and asked to be excluded from the class. However, the proposed agreement does not require Carfax to notify all consumers affected by the settlement. The company only has to send e-mail messages about the settlement to customers who bought Carfax reports from Oct. 27, 2005, to Oct. 27, 2006, because Mr. Gamache said the parties agreed that notifying customers for that year was enough. Lawyers objecting to the settlement said that means most customers would not know that they had lost their right to sue the company individually. Mr. Federman also said a legal technicality could have forced the case to be argued in Virginia if there had been no settlement because the fine print in the Carfax purchase agreement says courts in Virginia, where the company is based, must be used for legal disputes. Virginia, he said, does not allow consumer class-action suits, so each Carfax customer would have had to file a suit instead of being members of the class. But the Ohio court already considered that issue, rejecting a Carfax request to move the case to Virginia courts. The judge who will rule on the settlement, Andrew D. Logan of the Court of Common Pleas for Trumbull County, said the case would be tried in Ohio. Mr. Federman said the issue was still relevant because Carfax could still appeal that decision. Carfax must "change their business model," he said, and make it clearer on its Web site, carfax.com, that there are limits to its information. If the settlement is approved, Carfax will state that its reports "may not have the complete history of every vehicle." Those who object to the settlement said Carfax should be forced to clearly list its limits state by state. "It is very misleading," said Deepak Gupta, a lawyer for the consumer group Public Citizen, who helped write the objectors' brief. "We are not saying Carfax is worthless — far from it. But people need to know what information they have and what information they don't have and whether they need to supplement Carfax with actual inspections by mechanics," he said. He said the settlement failed consumers on every crucial point. "The people the case was supposed to be brought to benefit don't get anything," he said. "The class-action system isn't going to function if these kinds of settlements are allowed to stand." Judge Logan has already given the settlement preliminary approval. If he approves the settlement, consumers eager for their Carfax coupons should not delay. Under the current plan, requests must be postmarked no later than May 27. Details are available at It's the Truth, but Not the Whole Truth High Court Puts Limits On Patents National Briefing | West: California: Suit Over Emissions Is Threatened SIDEBAR; When Lawyers and Juries Mete Out Punishment Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/20/automobiles/collectibles/20FIFTY.html Collecting- Cars - 1957 Chevrolet - Auto Design - Finned and Fabulous Photograph from the brochure collection of Steve Hayes A 1957 Plymouth Fury, hastily redesigned to leap ahead of its rivals. 2007 Each age is a dream that is dying, or one that is coming to birth,” the poet Arthur O’Shaughnessy wrote. The year 1957 was just such a time. Skip to next paragraph New Models of 1957 Humphrey Bogart, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Joseph P. McCarthy, Eliot Ness and Louis B. Mayer died that year. Significant 1957 births included Donny Osmond, , Scott Adams, Bill Ford and . The future seemed limitless for the United States. Postwar prosperity seemed as though it could go on forever, and Detroit automakers introduced a lineup of new models that seemed as invincible as America. “I think 1957 was a high-water mark for Ford design; Chrysler as well,” said Greg Wallace, manager of General Motors’ Heritage Center in Sterling Heights, Mich. The enduring popularity, not to mention collectibility, of Chevrolet’s 1957 cars “speaks for itself,” he said, adding, “The ’57 Chevy was quite simply the best-looking car of the entire postwar era.” It was a Golden Era, but a fleeting one. It would end before the year was out. Fifty years ago, things were very different for the now-beleaguered Ford Motor Company. Ford’s 1957 lineup was all new for the first time in five years. The 21 models included a restyled Thunderbird sports car, a new generation of F-100 pickups, the car-based Ranchero pickup and the Fairlane 500 Skyliner — the first American convertible with a retractable hardtop. Sales were way up — so much that Ford outsold Chevrolet for the first time since 1935. Together, Ford and Chevrolet accounted for fully half of American car production. The public viewed the Chevys and their General Motors siblings as somewhat dowdy compared with competing 1957 cars. Critics derided the G.M. designs as passé because they were essentially makeovers of the 1955-56 models, with high rooflines, voluptuous fenders, short wheelbases and stubby overall lengths — the shoebox look favored by G.M.’s styling czar, Harley J. Earl. The future had already arrived at Chrysler. “Suddenly it’s 1960!” declared ads for Plymouth, which displaced Buick as America’s third-best-selling line of cars. New models advertised in Chrysler’s Forward Look campaign that were designed by Virgil Exner, the automaker’s chief designer, were trumpeted as “three years ahead of their time.” They essentially were. Chrysler’s president, Tex Colbert, was smarting from poor sales of the company’s 1956 lineup when he came across the futuristic advance designs for 1959 and ’60 models that Exner was working on. Eager for a fresh start, Colbert reportedly told Exner, “Let’s build those” for 1957. The ’57 models that had been in the works were scrapped. The 1957 Plymouth, Dodge, De Soto and Chrysler models trumped everything else on the market. For starters, they were five inches lower than the previous year’s models. They were also wider. Advertising claims (“longer, lower, wider”) notwithstanding, they weren’t really longer than the ’56s, but the sleek models looked as if they were. Credit the fins. Exner’s ’57 designs featured massive steel wings that seemed ready to propel these two-ton creations into the stratosphere. But of greater importance were landmark mechanical innovations like torsion-bar front suspensions, highly reliable three-speed Torqueflite automatic transmissions and Hemi V-8 engines that were power-rich yet fairly economical. “But the real feature of Chrysler’s ’57 cars was that these cars embodied the future, an optimistic, Eisenhower-prosperity future where people wanted to go, and go quickly,” Jeffrey I. Godshall, a Chrysler designer, author and automotive historian, wrote in an e-mail message. “The Forward Look cars indeed looked forward to a futuristic Jetsons’ world of high technology and increased leisure time. The perfect world Americans felt entitled to.” And what was speeding them to that idyllic Tomorrowland? Vehicles like the Chrysler 300C, with its 375-horsepower, 392-cubic-inch Hemi, the industry’s most powerful engine at the time. (Horsepower was calculated more liberally back then.) By comparison, Ford’s 312-cubic-inch V-8 made only 245 horsepower, although an optional supercharged version produced 300. The small-block Chevrolet V-8 had its displacement increased to 283 cubic inches, but base horsepower was just 185. However, for the first time on an American production car, fuel injection was offered. That helped to raise horsepower to 283 — the first time an American manufacturer had been able to achieve one horsepower for each cubic inch of displacement, the company said. But the fuel injection system was touchy, and dealers didn’t know how to work on it. Many dealers replaced the system with a carburetor. The supercharged Ford 312 was gone after just one year. the Lamborghini. He&#8217;d Rather Drive a V-8. Ferrari Turns 60 With a Factory Sale COLLECTING; Authentic, or Expert Fake? Due Diligence May Tell COLLECTING; A Dream Weaver Threads Together the Best of 3 Classic Chevys Chevrolet Division of General Motors Corp Martin's Sports Car Market - The Insider's Guide to Collecting, Investing, Values and Trends 1967-70 AMC AMX Buyer’s Guide This unique series of downloadable, on-demand 24-page-plus packets on popular collector cars, is a comprehensive guide that covers everything a reader would want to know about his or her favorite classic car. Preview This Buyer's Guide Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky The Page Jigsaw Puzzle Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/automobiles/13GREASE.html?ex=1336708800&en=4e763f215a8a4035&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Where There&#8217;s Never an Oil Shortage - There’s Never an Oil Shortage Alan Zale for The at Greasestock 2007 were not afraid to reveal their sources. 2007 Skip to next paragraph Alan Zale for The solar car team from Newburgh Free Academy. Alan Zale for The untrue to its name, Greasestock 2007 attracted a number of innovators who had gone beyond converting their vehicles to run on used fry oil. KARENA RUGGIERO, scrunched down in the cockpit of a tiny solar-powered racecar, never saw the small rock in the driveway of Peter Pratt’s Inn. But she knew it was there when the ground-scraping car — a brightly colored sliver with a wide bustle of photovoltaic cells splayed out behind — stopped dead in its tracks. So Ms. Ruggiero, a senior at the Newburgh Free Academy who had helped build the car, did what any savvy solar car racer would do: she bounced up and down in the seat to help inch the car forward. With a push from Jessica Marshall and Tova Markowitz, classmates who also helped with the car’s construction, the racecar gradually cleared the obstacle and continued on its way to the cheers of onlookers. This was Greasestock, the third annual gathering of “greasers,” people who have converted their diesel cars and trucks to run on vegetable oil. Somewhat untrue to its name, Greasestock 2007 attracted a number of innovators who had gone beyond converting their vehicles to run on used fry oil. In 2005, a tiny group — just eight committed aficionados — gathered at the invitation of Jon Pratt, the owner of the inn here in the rolling hills of northern Westchester County. By this year, attendance had grown to about 300 people, including nearly 50 who had driven converted vehicles. (I was among them, with my greased Jetta, which I have renamed Volksvegan.) Looking like a miniature county fair, the grounds of the inn were dotted with booths set up by local green businesses like ISI Solar and Choose Green Energy, two solar panel installers. But the biggest attraction for most attendees was the vehicles themselves, a collection of rather ordinary-looking Volkswagens and Mercedes-Benzes, along with a few Dodge and Ford trucks, lined up in the unpaved parking lot with their hoods raised. Brian Miller, who has driven more than 140,000 miles on used vegetable oil in his 1997 Ford F-250 pickup, made the 1,000-mile trip from his home in Peoria, Ill. “But you have to understand, I average 1,000 miles a week in my job, and it’s all on grease.” One of the more unusual cars was a bright green Austin Mini, modified with a Peugeot diesel engine and converted to run on vegetable oil. It was displayed by a Massachusetts company, Madhouse Minis. Some of the drivers had spent as little as $200 gathering up parts from hardware stores and plumbing suppliers; others had paid thousands of dollars for professional installation of components like a heated filter housing with electrically operated valves that automatically switch between tanks of diesel and vegetable oil. A crowd gathered as Wally Little, a partner in the newly formed V.O. Tech, a conversion company in nearby Mahopac, showed his filter unit, a shiny hunk of milled aluminum equipped with an electric heater to keep the normally viscous vegetable oil thin enough to pass through modern diesel injectors. At $1,250 for the custom-made device, he said, there’s barely a profit. A roaring sound drew a crowd of onlookers to a nearby oak tree, where Steve Leung was demonstrating another use for vegetable oil. On the ground in front of him were disembodied pieces of the oil-fired furnace that heats his home in Fairfield, Conn. A vigorous flame shot from the jet, showing that with the right adjustments, a furnace could be made to run on used cooking oil. “I thought of doing this last September, got it running in mid-October and heated my house all winter on vegetable oil,” Mr. Leung said. “I used about 700 gallons, and it was all free.” Mr. Pratt, who had closed his inn for the weekend to serve as host for the event, said he was happy to meet like-minded vegetable oil enthusiasts he had known only by their screen names at , an Internet meeting place established by one of the makers of conversion kits. Skip Wrightson, a customer service representative for Greasecar, the Massachusetts-based kit maker, said he saw vegetable oil conversions as a way “to establish a relationship with a car that allows people to live a modern life without doing damage to the earth.” Mr. Pratt expressed a different motive. “I run my car on grease to save money, and to not contribute to depending on foreign oil,” he said. “What it comes down to is I would just rather do it myself than depend on anyone else to provide fuel for my car.” Push More Use of Alternative Fuels Schwarzenegger Orders Cuts in Emissions On the Road Again, Where Biodiesel Is a Rising Star WHAT'S OFFLINE; How Many Miles to the Bushel? Find New Cars » Find Used Cars » Explore Collectible Cars » Sell Your Car » When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
