http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GONZALES_PROSECUTORS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 3:35 AM EDT Gonzales deflects Democrats' criticism BY LARA JAKES JORDAN Gonzales Testifies With New Confidence AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Ex-U.S. attorney questions own firing Gonzales deflects Democrats' criticism Excerpts from Gonzales hearing General Alberto Gonzales confidently deflected House Democrats' demands Thursday for details in the firings of U.S. attorneys, appearing ever more likely to survive accusations that the dismissals were politically motivated. Republican lawmakers rushed to Gonzales' defense as the attorney general denied anew that the firings last year were improper. The mostly muted five-hour hearing in front of the House Judiciary Committee was a sharp contrast to Gonzales' sometimes testy appearance three weeks ago when Senate Republicans questioned his competence to run the Justice Department. One senator at that session joined a small GOP chorus saying he should step down. "I will work as hard as I can, working with this committee and working with DOJ employees, to reassure the American people that this department is focused on doing its job," Gonzales said Thursday. That did not satisfy exasperated Democrats, who accused Gonzales of being evasive. "Your reputation is on the line, Mr. Attorney General. What do you have to say for yourself?" asked Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., adding that the "buck stops at the top." "I accept responsibility," Gonzales answered. President Bush steadfastly has stood by Gonzales, his longtime counselor and friend. Even career Justice Department staffers angered by the attorney general's response to the firings acknowledge Gonzales appears to have beaten back calls to leave. The latest lawmaker to urge Gonzales to quit was Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif. "I hope you will resign because the department is broken and I don't think you're the one to fix it," Schiff told him. Republicans sought to portray the controversy as losing steam. They pushed Democrats to wrap up the congressional probe that has dogged the department since the beginning of the year. "The list of accusations has mushroomed, but the evidence of wrongdoing has not," said Rep. Lamar Smith of Texas, top Republican on the committee. "If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues." Gonzales acknowledged low morale at the department. Career prosecutors have said it is stunting hiring. Private defense lawyers say it has led to government hesitation and indecisiveness in some courtrooms. Gonzales contended the department's independence is intact. "Contrary to being gun shy, this process is somewhat liberating in terms of going forward," he said. Gonzales repeatedly said he was unaware of many of the factors leading up to the dismissals because he relied on his former chief of staff, Kyle Sampson, to carry them out. He also said he could not clarify parts of the firing process that remain murky in his own mind while investigations of the dismissals continue. He said he has "no basis to believe" that Todd Graves, the former prosecutor in Kansas City, Mo., left in early 2006 because Graves refused to endorse department allegations about voter fraud in Missouri. Gonzales praised the work of Debra Yang, formerly the U.S. attorney in Los Angeles, who resigned in October to take a higher paying job at a private firm. Graves and Yang were not among the eight prosecutors whose dismissals are being investigated. But questions about their resignations have recently surfaced. Gonzales denied that Bush's political adviser, Karl Rove, demanded last fall's ouster of then-New Mexico prosecutor David Iglesias. But the attorney general acknowledged that Rove had complained about stagnant voter fraud cases in three districts, including New Mexico, and noted those concerns were echoed by Sen. Pete Domenici, R-N.M. Those complaints spurred suspicions that Iglesias was improperly fired because he refused to target Democrats. On the other side, GOP Rep. James Sensenbrenner leaned on Gonzales on Thursday to speed the department's corruption investigation of Democratic Rep. William Jefferson of Louisiana. "Congressman, you know I cannot talk about that," Gonzales told Sensenbrenner, R-Wis. "Well, everybody's talking about it except you," Sensenbrenner answered. "The people's confidence in your department has been further eroded, separate and apart from the U.S. attorney controversy, because of the delay in dealing with this matter." The House committee also released a portion of closed-door testimony from Sampson suggesting that the Justice Department spared U.S. Attorney Steven M. Biskupic in Milwaukee to avoid angering Sensenbrenner. Thursday's hearing served up more political bickering but few new facts about the firings. At one point, as many as nine Capitol Police officers escorted a half-dozen protesters from the room out of concern they would disrupt the hearing. Despite Committee Chairman John Conyers' plea that the hearing focus on the fired prosecutors, Republicans asked Gonzales about a range of topics, including terrorism and intellectual property theft. Gonzales mostly stuck to a script of accepting responsibility and pushing beyond the controversy - to Democrats' obvious skepticism. "You have a situation where most people believe that you didn't tell the truth about the U.S. attorneys," said Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y. "If most people believe that the United States attorney general has not told the truth about why these U.S. attorneys were fired, how can they have confidence in your job?" "I don't believe that's an accurate statement," Gonzales responded. "And what I'm trying to do in appearances like this is to set the record straight." blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/ News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War tensions follow Bush to commencement Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout Car bombings kill 23 at Baghdad bridges Radical Iraqi cleric said to be in Iran White House takes hard line on spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ON_THE_2008_TRAIL?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 6:03 PM EDT Romney cites Scripture on gay marriage Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is defending his opposition to gay marriage by citing the Scriptures. The former Massachusetts governor, who in his 1994 Senate bid pledged to be a more effective champion for gay causes than his Democratic rival, discussed gay marriage in an interview set to air Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes." "This isn't just some temporary convenience here on Earth, but we're people that are designed to live together as male and female and we're gonna have families," he tells interviewer Mike Wallace, according to an excerpt CBS released Friday. "And that, there's a great line in the Bible that children are an inheritance of the Lord and happy is he who has or hath his quiver full of them." Romney, seeking to become the first Mormon president, also tries to allay any concerns about his religion. "What's at the heart of my faith is a belief that there's a creator, that we're all children of the same God, and that fundamentally the relationship you have with your spouse is important and eternal," Romney said over the course of two interviews, one of which was taped at his vacation home in Wolfeboro, N.H. Meanwhile, Romney also is on the cover of the latest edition of Time magazine. In its main story, Time writes, "The closest he has ever come to a personal religious crisis, he recalls, was when he was in college and considering whether to go off on a mission, as his grandfather, father and brother had done. ... He says he also felt guilty about the draft deferment he would get for it, when other young men his age were heading for Vietnam." Romney offered a slightly different tale during an interview with the Boston Herald during his 1994 U.S. Senate campaign. "I didn't go on a mission to avoid the draft," Romney said at the time. "I never asked my dad (Michigan Gov. George Romney) in any way to be involved with the draft board. "Romney, however, acknowledged he did not have any desire to serve in the military during his college and missionary days, especially after he married and became a father," the newspaper wrote. "'I was not planning on signing up for the military,' he said. It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam, but nor did I take any actions to remove myself from the pool of young men who were eligible for the draft. If drafted, I would have been happy to serve, and if I didn't get drafted I was happy to be with my wife and new child.'" PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) - Presidential candidate John McCain has made another change in his struggling campaign, dismissing his New Hampshire campaign manager on Friday. Jim Martin had run the Arizona Republican's campaign in the state and was part of McCain's 2000 victory in the state. But the campaign decided to replace him with Jim Barnett, who had been a top political operative. McCain's New Hampshire Communications Director Jill Hazelbaker said the departure came Friday. "While we appreciate his hard work, Jim Barnett will assume the day-to-day responsibilities going forward," she said. "Barnett is a talented political professional with extensive campaign experience, and he will work closely with Mike Dennehy to build out our ground operation to ensure that we win the primary." Barnett had served as chairman of the Vermont Republican Party and joined the McCain campaign as the regional political director. "We need someone who knows what it takes on every level of a campaign and understand a get-out-the-vote process. Jim Barnett is that person," said Dennehy, a McCain consultant who stepped down earlier this week as national political director and returned to help New Hampshire's office. Earlier this year, McCain restructured his campaign fundraising organization after a lackluster first quarter. EXETER, N.H. (AP) - Two days before Mother's Day, Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton appeared with a group of New Hampshire moms to highlight what she called the "inequities and absurdities" that prevent children from receiving quality health care. "I think one of the greatest gifts you can give any mother is the health of a child," Clinton said Friday at Exeter Hospital, where the three mothers who joined her on stage did most of the talking. AnnMarie Morse of Candia described her crusade to change state law after her daughter died of colon cancer in 2005. Michelle Morse, 22, had continued to attend college full-time during her chemotherapy to keep her health insurance. Under what became known as "Michelle's Law," insurance companies that cover college students under their parents' plans must continue the coverage if a student takes a medical leave of absence. Clinton, a sponsor of federal legislation that would expand Michelle's Law nationwide, called Morse's story one of many examples of a parent who does all the right things, but still struggles with health insurance. "You think you've taken care of your family. You've been paying your insurance premiums, and when you need it the most it's not there for you," she said. "It's one of the reasons we need to change the whole system, but until we can change the whole system, we have to try to get rid of the inequities and absurdities that stand in the way of people getting the care they deserve and need." NEW YORK (AP) - Despite constant denials that he is running for president, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid out a national energy plan Friday and took veiled jabs at his potential opponents, accusing them of "politics as usual." The Republican billionaire outlined an energy plan that proposes creating profit motives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, building new wind farms and nuclear plants, phasing out incandescent light bulbs and setting early deadlines to accomplish these goals. Bloomberg, who recently launched an effort to drastically reduce pollution by 2030 in New York City, suggested that those who set later deadlines like 2050 and 2070 are afraid to do the work and make the commitments now. A number of presidential candidates - including Democrats John Edwards, Barack Obama and Chris Dodd, and Republican John McCain - have their own proposals with a 2050 endpoint, or support plans with that deadline. "Legislators that make promises to achieve something in the far-off distant future but refuse to take steps now that would allow us to begin the process are really very hypocritical," Bloomberg said. "That's not leadership, that's not what this country needs. It's passing the buck. And unfortunately for Washington today, it's what we call politics as usual." Bloomberg, a billionaire, has repeatedly said he will not enter the presidential race, although he and his aides have continued to fuel speculation with coy remarks, as well as a greater focus on national issues and travel outside New York. Associated Press Writers Sara Kugler in New York, Holly Ramer in Exeter, N.H., Rasha Madkour in Houston and Philip Elliott in Portsmouth, N.H., contributed to this report. (This version CORRECTS SUBS 4th graf, 2nd item to correct job with Vermont GOP) blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMMIGRATION_CONGRESS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 4:34 PM EDT Reid extends negotiations on immigration By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS Raid Captures Illegal Immigrants Shelters Provide Stability for Young Immigrants Reid extends negotiations on immigration Churches provide immigrants sanctuary LA immigrant activists plan June rally Okla. gov. signs immigration reform bill Tighter border first; immigration later Memo on Prosecution of Illegal Immigrants AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes to give a fitful set of bipartisan talks more time to yield an immigration deal, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Friday he would delay a vote on the issue until next Wednesday. The move postponed - at least for a day - what was shaping up as a partisan clash over immigration after weeks of negotiations between the White House and senators in both parties designed to strike a broad compromise. With that agreement still elusive, Reid is planning to force debate next week on an immigration measure that passed the Senate last year with wide Democratic backing but opposition by a majority of Republicans. GOP senators have promised to block that move, saying they will only accept a new bipartisan compromise. "Some of the senators feel that there's a breakthrough that could take place" in talks over the weekend and early next week, said Reid, D-Nev., adding that he would "reluctantly" postpone the test-vote, which he had set for Tuesday. He has now set the vote for next Wednesday. Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said the move would "give us the maximum opportunity to piece back together the bipartisan agreement that we thought we almost had a week or so ago." Talks are continuing on the possible deal, which would first secure the U.S.-Mexico border and implement an elaborate high-tech identification system for immigrant workers, and only then give millions of illegal immigrants a chance at legal status - after waits as long as 13 more years. Many Democrats and Republicans are wary of such an agreement, which also would limit immigrants' ability to bring their families to the U.S. Democrats fear it will be rejected as too punitive by their liberal base, while Republicans are concerned about alienating conservatives by appearing to treat illegal immigrants too leniently. President Bush plans to use his Saturday weekly radio address to urge Congress to reshape immigration laws. blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_ABORTION?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 6:22 PM EDT Giuliani defends stance on abortion how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani defends stance on abortion Giuliani backs Army buildup nearing 600K Giuliani says Saddam paying for offenses Rudy Giuliani assails Venezuela's Chavez Giuliani counts backers who aren't fans Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' HOUSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani forcefully reaffirmed his support for abortion rights on Friday and argued that his divergence from conservatives on the issue should not disqualify him from being the eventual GOP nominee. "This is a matter of deep and profound judgment," he said in a speech at Houston Baptist University. "It's a matter of morals. It's a matter of your interpretation of how laws should operate, your interpretation of how respect for the rights of others should operate. But in a country like ours ... I believe you have to respect their viewpoint and give them a level of choice. I would grant women the right to make that choice." The former New York City mayor has struggled in the last week to explain his personal opposition to abortion with his long public record of favoring a woman's right to choose. He has defended his positions - and some say contradictory comments - on late-term abortion, public funding for abortions and the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion. But Giuliani left few questions about his position Friday, telling about 500 students and faculty at the small conservative school that - despite his belief that abortion was "morally wrong" - he believes the decision should ultimately be left to individuals and their decisions should be respected. Opposition to abortion has been a litmus test for conservatives within the Republican Party, who hold considerable sway in the primaries. Giuliani has drawn criticism from some in the GOP for his abortion rights support. One of his rivals, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, has switched from supporting abortion rights to opposing the procedure - a shift that also has drawn complaints. Another rival, Sam Brownback, said Friday that an abortion rights Republican would have trouble winning the nomination. His comments echoed those of another candidate, Sen. John McCain of Arizona. "It is a pro-life party, with a pro-choice wing," said the Kansas senator, who spoke during a taping of Iowa Public Television's "Iowa Press" program. "I think he has great trouble winning off of that position." Brownback also criticized Romney's switch. "I do think what will be a deal-breaker is if you flip on core issues like life, taxes, second amendment rights," he said. Giuliani, acknowledging that his position on abortion differed from that of most of his audience, urged them to consider his views on other issues as well before deciding whether to support his candidacy. "You have a right to evaluate this in figuring out if you can support me, and at what level you can support me," Giuliani said. "Everybody's got to make a choice. How important are the differences and then how important are the other issues that are involved in this election?" Giuliani emphasized his conservative credentials on tax cuts, crime and the war in Iraq. He said his eight years as mayor of New York showed he could apply conservative social and economic principles even in the face of substantial opposition. HBU President Robert Sloan said the Giuliani campaign called the university on Wednesday and asked if the candidate could speak there this week. Sloan said that, although campaign officials would not discuss why they had chosen HBU, he believed it was because Giuliani "wanted to forthrightly speak on social issues in an audience where religious matters and moral issues truly matter." Several students praised Giuliani's speech, but said it was unlikely to make them support his candidacy. "Overall, I thought it was a great speech," said Erik Mignault, a 25-year-old political science major at HBU. "I agree that we're not going to agree 100 percent with all candidates. I think it was a good political stance to take. He's sitting right in the middle." But Mignault and several other students said they were anti-abortion and likely to support a more conservative GOP candidate. Giuliani's appearance was greeted warmly, and he appeared playful at times, hoisting a child with an "I Love New York" T-shirt and laughing at boos when he spoke of his love for the New York Yankees, the team that this week acquired Houston Astros star pitcher Roger Clemens. But Giuliani told the audience that they should support a candidate who could protect America from terrorism and from Democratic assaults on the economy. He acknowledged that abortion was the issue that most divided them. "I have profound respect for your views," he said. "I have profound respect for your education, and I have profound respect for your religion." But, he said, it is uniquely American to disagree on some political issues while agreeing on many others. "We understand how to respect each other's differences," he said. Associated Press Writer Mike Glover in Johnston, Iowa, contributed to this report. blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DEMOCRATS_LABOR?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 6:06 PM EDT Democratic candidates woo firefighters N.H. (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidates invoked images of Sept. 11 tragedy and heroism - from a dust-caked crater in New York to bloodied firefighters - as they appealed for the endorsement of a powerful firefighters union. Firefighters emerged from the 2001 attacks as heroes, a fact not lost on the candidates wooing the International Association of Fire Fighters at a two-day meeting of union leaders. "It's hard to find anyone who will stand up and make a speech against firefighters," said Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Clinton told firefighters she appreciated their work in New York City, where two plane crashes led to the fiery collapse of the World Trade Center's Twin Towers. A cloud of smoke, dust and ash hovered for days as rescue workers searched for survivors and bodies. "As a senator from New York on 9-11, I know exactly what those sacrifices were," Clinton said. "We lost so many great firefighters that day, people who rushed into that inferno and kept going up those stairs, weighed down with 100 pounds of equipment and trying to make sure if there was anyone to save, they'd get there." Sen. Joe Biden told the firefighters he'd never forget the pictures from that day. "The one thing I remember the most was that grizzled fireman, coming out of the burning debris, hunched over, absolute determination," said Biden, of Delaware. "That one photograph lifted America off its knees. That one image was the most profound image about the determination and the grit of the entire American people that ever was shown during that event." And Sen. Chris Dodd decried the lack of improvement in communications equipment for firefighters and other safety workers since then. "I think its' a failure how, after 5 1/2 years since 9-11, we still have too many states and jurisdictions that can't talk to one another in a time of crisis," the Connecticut senator said. The union, which traditionally supports Democratic bids for the White House, backed Sen. John Kerry in 2004. The 280,000-member union has feuded with Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, excoriating him for his November 2001 decision to cut back the number of firefighters searching the rubble of Ground Zero for the remains of some 300 fallen comrades. Recently, Giuliani criticized Democrats on national security, suggesting in a New Hampshire speech that the United States could face another major terrorist attack if a Democrat is elected in 2008. Throughout the two-day conference, the Democratic candidates tried to counter that image, talking about issues key to the firefighters. Candidates pledged to support collective bargaining agreements - Clinton said they were "as American as apple pie - and better training and safer pensions. Illinois Sen. Barack Obama said more needs to be done to help firefighters secure better benefits. "Here we are, five years after 9-11 and we still have to demand health care for the men and women who did the worst work on that day," Obama said by telephone. "It's our obligation to take care of them now." And Clinton said not enough has been done to help firefighters who are suffering health problems after working on Sept. 11. "We lost so many brave firefighters that day who weren't even on duty. They came because they had to be there to help," Clinton said. "It seemed to me at that moment, whatever was required to repay the debt our country owed them, I'd want to make sure that happened." blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AP_POLL_BUSH_CONGRESS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 3:49 PM EDT Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval Lobbying reform losing steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes think the Democratic-led Congress is doing just as dreary a job as President Bush, following four months of bitter political standoffs and little progress on Iraq and a host of domestic issues. An AP-Ipsos poll also found that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is a more popular figure than the president and her colleagues on Capitol Hill, though she faces a gender gap in which significantly more women than men support her. The survey found only 35 percent approve of how Congress is handling its job, down 5 percentage points in a month. That gives lawmakers the same bleak approval rating as Bush, who has been mired at about that level since last fall, including his dip to a record low for the AP-Ipsos poll of 32 percent last January. "It's mostly Iraq" plus a lack of progress in other areas, said Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla., who heads the House GOP's campaign committee. "These are not good numbers for an incumbent, and it doesn't matter if you have an 'R' or a 'D' next to your name." Democrats agree that the problem is largely Iraq, which has dominated this year's session of Congress while producing little more than this month's Bush veto of a bill requiring the withdrawal of U.S. troops. It has also overshadowed House-passed bills on stem cell research, student loans and other subjects that the White House opposes, they say. "People are unhappy, there hasn't been a lot of change in direction, for example in Iraq," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., chairman of House Democrats' campaign effort. Rising gasoline prices could also be a factor, lawmakers said. In another measure of popular discontent, the survey found that 71 percent say the country is on the wrong track - about even with the 73 percent who said so last May, the worst level since the AP-Ipsos poll began in December 2003. The survey was taken Monday through Wednesday, before Bush offered to seek compromise with congressional Democrats over a war spending bill setting benchmarks for progress in Iraq. Bush told reporters Thursday that if pollsters had asked his opinion about Iraq last fall, "I'd have said I disapprove of what was going on in Iraq. They could have put me down as part of the disapproval process." That was before his decision to send nearly 30,000 additional troops to Iraq, which "would more likely cause me to approve of what's going on in Iraq," he added. Overall approval of Bush was steady from last month, but fell to 69 percent among Republicans, about 7 percentage points below where it had been in April. Earlier this week, a group of GOP moderate House members warned Bush that the status quo in Iraq could mean Republican election losses next year. "If the war doesn't begin to turn around, Republicans will have problems," said Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., who said he supports Bush's Iraq policy. White House spokesman Tony Snow declined to comment on the poll. Congress' approval rating this week was 10 points higher than a year ago, when Republicans were in control. But after bumping up in April, this month's drop left lawmakers' job approval where it was when the year began. April saw Congress defy Bush and send him a bill financing the war and requiring a troop withdrawal, which he vetoed May 1. "People wanted change in Washington" on many issues, not just Iraq, said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill., a member of the House Democratic leadership. "I'm not surprised about where people are. They're hearing only about Iraq." Congress' reduced appeal was evident in several categories of people. Only 48 percent of Democrats said they approved of Congress, down from 55 percent last month. That included a 12 percentage point drop among Democratic women, though support from Democratic men remained steady. Approval by minorities also fell a dozen points to 39 percent, with a similar reduction among people whose family incomes exceed $75,000. By region, the steepest drop was in the Midwest, where approval fell by 10 percentage points to 28 percent. Congress' highest approval was in the Northeast, where four in ten gave it a positive rating. As for Pelosi, D-Calif., her overall approval of 45 percent stood 10 points higher than Bush's and Congress'. She was seen favorably by 52 percent of women, but only 39 percent of men. While whites are closely split about her, minorities approve of her job by a 15-point margin. Pelosi's numbers are about where she was last month but slightly lower than in January. In the last month, she has lost significant support from younger voters, college-educated women and Westerners. "Voters are frustrated by the fact that the president refuses to change direction on Iraq," said Pelosi spokesman Brendan Daly. Bush's approval ratings are lowest for his handling of Iraq and domestic issues including health care, with about one-third seeing him favorably. About four in 10 like the job he is doing on the economy and foreign policy. Men give the president higher grades than women do, whites higher than minorities, and married people higher than singles. The AP-Ipsos survey involved telephone interviews with 1,000 adults. It has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. AP Manager of News Surveys Trevor Tompson and AP News Survey Specialist Dennis Junius contributed to this report. blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MCCAIN_BUSH?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 10, 11:06 PM EDT McCain says Bush's numbers hurt GOP Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John McCain McCain says Bush's numbers hurt GOP McCain: Tough for abortion rights rivals McCain criticizes Clinton's Iraq move McCain favors a 'League of Democracies' GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate John McCain said Thursday he believes President Bush's low approval ratings are hurting the GOP yet won't affect the party's 2008 nominee. "I don't think there's any doubt that when the president's polling numbers are low that it harms the Republican Party in general, but I think that when it comes election time that the overwhelming majority of Americans will choose their candidate on the basis of that individual candidate's qualifications, vision and record," McCain said in an interview with president's numbers have fallen largely because of his stewardship of the Iraq war. On Tuesday, 11 moderate House Republicans met with Bush at the White House and bluntly told him that the war was unsustainable without public support and that it was damaging GOP political fortunes. McCain, a four-term Arizona senator, said that despite what he called Bush's mismanagement of the war, "there's no doubt that, in my view, the president's not given credit for a healthy economy" or that there hasn't been another terrorist attack on the United States since Sept. 11, 2001. "But life isn't fair," McCain said as he relaxed with a cup of coffee in the lobby of a hotel near the Gerald R. Ford International Airport. He campaigned in Michigan on Wednesday and Thursday before heading to Chicago on his way back to Washington. He said voters not only consider candidates' qualifications and experience but also their performances in presidential debates. McCain, without mentioning him by name, chided former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney during a Republican presidential campaign debate last week over comments Romney made earlier about terrorist leader Osama bin Laden. Romney had said "it's not worth moving heaven and earth, spending billions of dollars, just trying to catch one person" and advocated a broader strategy to defeat Islamic jihadists. McCain called the bin Laden comment "naive." At the debate, Romney defended himself, saying "it's more than Osama bin Laden. But he is going to pay and he will die." McCain shot back that bin Laden was responsible for the deaths of thousands of innocent Americans and "we will bring him to justice and I'll follow him to the gates of hell." "We cannot allow a person to slaughter innocent Americans and not be dedicated to doing whatever is necessary to bring that person to justice," McCain said Thursday, explaining his debate comment. The Rev. Al Sharpton, a former Democratic presidential candidate, said Monday that "those of us who believe in God" will defeat Romney for the White House. Sharpton denied he was questioning the Mormon's own belief in God but Romney, while campaigning Wednesday in Iowa, called the remark "bigoted." Asked whether he agreed with Romney about what Sharpton said, McCain said, "I don't usually examine" Sharpton's comments, adding that he doesn't believe Romney's religion is a factor in the race. "I do not believe that the fact that Governor Romney is a Mormon will have the slightest impact - nor should it have any impact - on the judgment of the American people as to who their president should be," said McCain, an Episcopalian. "I soundly reject that notion." McCain also reiterated that he believes it should be up to states to decide the legality of marriage and civil unions for gay couples, which he personally opposes, but that it is all right for such couples to "engage in legal agreements and contracts." These could include agreements in which one partner can make health decisions in the event the other one becomes too ill to do so. blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EDWARDS_SPENDING?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 12:27 PM EDT John Edwards' big ideas costly AP Photo/Charles Rex Arbogast Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John Edwards John Edwards' big ideas costly Edwards discusses time at hedge fund Edwards touts husband's record for women Analysis: Calif. boosts political clout candidate John Edwards is offering more policy proposals than any other candidate in the primary and his ideas are winning loud applause from Democratic audiences. The question is whether other voters will cheer when they see the price tag - more than $125 billion a year. Edwards is quick to acknowledge his spending on health care, energy and poverty reduction comes at a cost, with more plans to come. On Friday, he proposed an $8 billion college scholarship program, an outgrowth of his "College for Everyone" idea in 2005. All told, Edwards' proposals would equal more than $1 trillion if he could get them enacted into law and operational during two White House terms. To put the number in perspective, President Bush has dedicated more than $1.8 trillion to tax cuts. The cost of the Iraq war is nearing $450 billion. And this year's federal budget is about $2.8 trillion. Edwards says fixing the country's problems takes precedence over eliminating the deficit or offering middle-class tax relief like he proposed when running for president in the last election. "I think for me, as opposed to the additional tax relief for the middle class, what's more important is to give them relief from the extraordinary cost of health care, from gasoline prices, the things that they spend money on every single day that are escalating dramatically," Edwards said in a recent interview with pay for some of his priorities, Edwards would roll back Bush's tax cuts on Americans making more than $200,000 a year. He also said he would consider raising capital gains taxes to help fund his plans and raise or eliminate the $90,000 cap on individual earnings subject to Social Security taxes to help cover the projected shortfall in the system. Edwards also has proposed spending cuts such as cutting subsidies for the banks that make student loans for a savings of $6 billion a year. He would also save money by trimming the number of Department of Housing and Urban Development employees, negotiating Medicare prescription drug prices and cutting agricultural subsidies for corporate farms, although the campaign did not yet have estimates of how much that would bring in. Edwards' ideas have already opened him to accusations of being just another tax-and-spend liberal, a label put on Walter Mondale, the 1984 Democratic presidential nominee who said he would raise taxes and then lost 49 states to President Reagan. The Republican National Committee accused Edwards of making his first campaign promise to raise taxes. "Edwards' America Will Pay More Taxes," said a news release from the conservative Club for Growth on the day Edwards announced a plan for universal health care that would cost $90 billion to $120 billion. The cost estimate came from Ken Thorpe, an Emory University researcher who provides outside analysis on health care plans for presidential candidates. The estimate he gave the Edwards campaign was $105 billion to $145 billion in 2010 dollars - the year Edwards' plan would go into full effect. However, the campaign changed it to 2007 dollars. His plan would require employers to provide insurance or contribute to the coverage of every worker - and it would require every citizen to get coverage. The government would pay for insurance for lower income Americans and tax credits to help subsidize what other families would have to pay for coverage, funded by abolishing Bush's tax cuts for people who make more than $200,000 a year and by having the government collect more back taxes. Among other annual spending: -$15 billion-$20 billion to help achieve his goal of ending poverty in the U.S. within 30 years. That includes $4.2 billion to increase the earned income tax credit, which refunds payroll and income taxes to low-income people; $4 billion to create 1 million short-term jobs to help the unemployed climb out of poverty; and $3 billion for $500 work bonds to help low-income workers save. -$13 billion energy fund to develop and encourage more efficiency and renewable energy use. That includes $3 billion in tax credits for the production of renewable energy and $1 billion to help the U.S. auto industry modernize with the latest fuel-efficient technology. He said the fund would be paid for by selling $10 billion in greenhouse pollution permits and by ending $3 billion in subsidies for big oil companies. -$1 billion rural recovery plan with initiatives like increased investment in rural small businesses, education, health care and resources to fight methamphetamine abuse. -$5 billion in foreign aid to combat international poverty, including $3 billion to help pay for primary education for every child in the world. Edwards also has promoted other ideas he has in the works, such as an education plan that includes his goal of eliminating financial barriers to college, a border security plan and federal spending on stem cells. But he's yet to announce details or costs. Still, Edwards has been the most forthcoming Democratic candidate when it comes to describing the details of how he would like to run the country. His chief rivals - Sens. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama - have offered few hints about their policy proposals. The ideas are the centerpiece of Edwards' plan to position himself as the party's true progressive in the primary. He hopes the big ideas will attract the liberal Iowa caucus goers, online energy and labor endorsements that he's counting on to propel him to the nomination, said Democratic strategist Chris Lehane. "If the costs become a real issue, it will be a good problem to have for him because the only folks likely to make a real argument against it would be the Republicans, which means his strategy succeeded and he was the nominee," said Lehane, who worked in the Clinton White House and for Al Gore's candidacy in 2000. Edwards said his spending proposals also would take precedence over eliminating the more than $200 billion deficit. He said he would work to lower the deficit and would not let it grow. "Those things cost money, and there's a balance between that and the need to reduce the deficit," said the former North Carolina senator. "And so the threshold question is where is the priority? ... If we're going to do those things, I think it's very difficult to eliminate the deficit - in the short term, impossible." He said he supports House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's requirement that legislation to cut taxes or boost federal benefit programs must be paid for with tax increases or other benefit cuts. But Edwards has yet to explain how he would pay for all his proposals. That will come later this year when he offers his tax plan, the campaign said. "There's definitely a lack of numbers in some of his proposals," said Paul Weinstein Jr., chief operating officer at the centrist Progressive Policy Institute. "I think you should be commended for wanting to provide universal health care and to eliminate poverty. I think it would be more legitimate if he would identify some of the ways in which he would pay for these things." John Edwards campaign Web site: blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=TNKNN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT KnoxNews: News from the Associated Press View all of the AP's breaking news stories Email this page to a friend May 11, 5:35 PM EDT Ex-U.S. attorney questions own firing of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Ex-U.S. attorney questions own firing Gonzales deflects Democrats' criticism Excerpts from Gonzales hearing former West Virginia federal prosecutor said Friday the White House fired him in 2005 in the middle of a corruption and vote-buying investigation but never told him why. Karl K. "Kasey" Warner said he has "concerns" and sees parallels between himself and eight other ousted U.S. attorneys. Congress and an internal Justice Department agency are investigating whether those firings were politically motivated. The Justice Department rejected any suggestion of politics in Warner's dismissal. "The notion that the termination was political is absolutely false," spokesman Dean Boyd said. "We encourage Mr. Warner to provide the department with a written privacy waiver and we will be happy to provide you with the reason for his removal." Warner would not elaborate on what concerned him about his August 2005 firing but rejected the idea that he was fired over his performance. "The facts speak for themselves. Look into how I ran my office. See how I managed the office," Warner said. "If they want to look at the cases I had and the corruption cases we have now, people can come to their own conclusions about why I was let go." Warner said he refused to resign when asked by the Justice Department, responding that he took his direction from President Bush. "Next thing I know, I get a letter from the president's counsel, Harriet Miers, saying I'd been fired, no reason given," Warner recounted in a telephone interview. A state legislative audit later revealed e-mails in which Warner had offered to secretly contribute to a 2004 county political campaign. "Let me try to steer some contributions your way (gently) and perhaps use a family member with a different last name to make my contribution," Warner wrote in one July 2003 e-mail, according to the audit. Warner said he never followed through on the offer and discounted that as a reason behind his departure. Warner was nominated by Bush in 2001 to serve as the top federal prosecutor in southern West Virginia. The heavily Democratic district is the center of the state's coal industry. Bush carried the state in both 2000 and 2004. Almost immediately Warner made public corruption and vote-buying cases a priority, sometimes to the ire of Democrats who accused him of targeting them for political purposes. Warner's brother Kris was the Republican state party chairman, and his brother Monty ran for governor. Some former U.S. attorneys such as New Mexico's David Iglesias said Republican politicians pressured them to rush public corruption investigations in election years. Warner would not comment on whether he received any such pressure and would not say who was being investigated when he was fired. "Speaking generally," he said, "in my mind, if you want a good justice system, you don't remove U.S. attorneys to thwart ongoing criminal investigations." Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has denied that politics influenced hiring and firing decisions. And though Gonzales has apologized for mishandling the controversy, he has rejected calls from lawmakers to step down. The Justice Department has also said it never tried to influence an investigation for political reasons. An internal probe is under way. Warner's statements came on the heels of those by former western Missouri U.S. Attorney Todd Graves, who said he was forced out in March 2006. Graves said he fell out of favor with the Justice Department after refusing to cooperate with the filing of a Missouri voter fraud lawsuit a year before the 2006 election. Congress is holding hearings on the eight other firings, and former Justice Department White House liaison Monica Goodling is shaping up to be a main witness. A federal judge approved an immunity deal for her Friday, allowing her to testify without fear of prosecution. Warner's statements echo those by former Maryland U.S. Attorney Thomas M. DiBiagio, who in March said he believed he was fired for investigating corruption in a Republican governor's administration. The Justice Department said DiBiagio was fired for writing e-mails calling for "front-page" corruption indictments before Election Day. Warner said that, if asked, he would cooperate with any investigation. But he said he has made peace with his termination and is not trying to become part of the Capitol Hill story line. That's why the former Army officer said he has not approached investigators. "Sometimes soldiers catch a bullet. If you're truly out there doing your job, if you're truly a leader, sometimes you catch a bullet," he said. "It might not be fair, it might not be right, it might be sad, but that's part of what you do. I caught a bullet. It's not something you cry about or complain about." Associated Press writers Lara Jakes Jordan in Washington and Lawrence Messina in Charleston, W.Va., contributed to this report. blogs on KnoxNews.com Photography and archived photos Multimedia and special projects Be the first to know when breaking news occurs. Sign up to receive our Big Dog Alerts in your email. Copyright 2006 - KnoxNews.com is an Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ON_THE_2008_TRAIL?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:03 PM EDT Romney Cites Scripture on Gay Marriage Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is defending his opposition to gay marriage by citing the Scriptures. The former Massachusetts governor, who in his 1994 Senate bid pledged to be a more effective champion for gay causes than his Democratic rival, discussed gay marriage in an interview set to air Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes." "This isn't just some temporary convenience here on Earth, but we're people that are designed to live together as male and female and we're gonna have families," he tells interviewer Mike Wallace, according to an excerpt CBS released Friday. "And that, there's a great line in the Bible that children are an inheritance of the Lord and happy is he who has or hath his quiver full of them." Romney, seeking to become the first Mormon president, also tries to allay any concerns about his religion. "What's at the heart of my faith is a belief that there's a creator, that we're all children of the same God, and that fundamentally the relationship you have with your spouse is important and eternal," Romney said over the course of two interviews, one of which was taped at his vacation home in Wolfeboro, N.H. Meanwhile, Romney also is on the cover of the latest edition of Time magazine. In its main story, Time writes, "The closest he has ever come to a personal religious crisis, he recalls, was when he was in college and considering whether to go off on a mission, as his grandfather, father and brother had done. ... He says he also felt guilty about the draft deferment he would get for it, when other young men his age were heading for Vietnam." Romney offered a slightly different tale during an interview with the Boston Herald during his 1994 U.S. Senate campaign. "I didn't go on a mission to avoid the draft," Romney said at the time. "I never asked my dad (Michigan Gov. George Romney) in any way to be involved with the draft board. "Romney, however, acknowledged he did not have any desire to serve in the military during his college and missionary days, especially after he married and became a father," the newspaper wrote. "'I was not planning on signing up for the military,' he said. It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam, but nor did I take any actions to remove myself from the pool of young men who were eligible for the draft. If drafted, I would have been happy to serve, and if I didn't get drafted I was happy to be with my wife and new child.'" PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) - Presidential candidate John McCain has made another change in his struggling campaign, dismissing his New Hampshire campaign manager on Friday. Jim Martin had run the Arizona Republican's campaign in the state and was part of McCain's 2000 victory in the state. But the campaign decided to replace him with Jim Barnett, who had been a top political operative. McCain's New Hampshire Communications Director Jill Hazelbaker said the departure came Friday. "While we appreciate his hard work, Jim Barnett will assume the day-to-day responsibilities going forward," she said. "Barnett is a talented political professional with extensive campaign experience, and he will work closely with Mike Dennehy to build out our ground operation to ensure that we win the primary." Barnett had served as chairman of the Vermont Republican Party and joined the McCain campaign as the regional political director. "We need someone who knows what it takes on every level of a campaign and understand a get-out-the-vote process. Jim Barnett is that person," said Dennehy, a McCain consultant who stepped down earlier this week as national political director and returned to help New Hampshire's office. Earlier this year, McCain restructured his campaign fundraising organization after a lackluster first quarter. EXETER, N.H. (AP) - Two days before Mother's Day, Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton appeared with a group of New Hampshire moms to highlight what she called the "inequities and absurdities" that prevent children from receiving quality health care. "I think one of the greatest gifts you can give any mother is the health of a child," Clinton said Friday at Exeter Hospital, where the three mothers who joined her on stage did most of the talking. AnnMarie Morse of Candia described her crusade to change state law after her daughter died of colon cancer in 2005. Michelle Morse, 22, had continued to attend college full-time during her chemotherapy to keep her health insurance. Under what became known as "Michelle's Law," insurance companies that cover college students under their parents' plans must continue the coverage if a student takes a medical leave of absence. Clinton, a sponsor of federal legislation that would expand Michelle's Law nationwide, called Morse's story one of many examples of a parent who does all the right things, but still struggles with health insurance. "You think you've taken care of your family. You've been paying your insurance premiums, and when you need it the most it's not there for you," she said. "It's one of the reasons we need to change the whole system, but until we can change the whole system, we have to try to get rid of the inequities and absurdities that stand in the way of people getting the care they deserve and need." NEW YORK (AP) - Despite constant denials that he is running for president, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid out a national energy plan Friday and took veiled jabs at his potential opponents, accusing them of "politics as usual." The Republican billionaire outlined an energy plan that proposes creating profit motives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, building new wind farms and nuclear plants, phasing out incandescent light bulbs and setting early deadlines to accomplish these goals. Bloomberg, who recently launched an effort to drastically reduce pollution by 2030 in New York City, suggested that those who set later deadlines like 2050 and 2070 are afraid to do the work and make the commitments now. A number of presidential candidates - including Democrats John Edwards, Barack Obama and Chris Dodd, and Republican John McCain - have their own proposals with a 2050 endpoint, or support plans with that deadline. "Legislators that make promises to achieve something in the far-off distant future but refuse to take steps now that would allow us to begin the process are really very hypocritical," Bloomberg said. "That's not leadership, that's not what this country needs. It's passing the buck. And unfortunately for Washington today, it's what we call politics as usual." Bloomberg, a billionaire, has repeatedly said he will not enter the presidential race, although he and his aides have continued to fuel speculation with coy remarks, as well as a greater focus on national issues and travel outside New York. Associated Press Writers Sara Kugler in New York, Holly Ramer in Exeter, N.H., Rasha Madkour in Houston and Philip Elliott in Portsmouth, N.H., contributed to this report. (This version CORRECTS SUBS 4th graf, 2nd item to correct job with Vermont GOP) Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BUSH_SPENDING?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:03 PM EDT White House Takes Hard Line on Spending AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes White House struck a hard line on spending Friday, warning Democrats in Congress that their efforts to boost domestic programs such as education would provoke vetoes this fall. In a letter to lawmakers, White House budget chief Rob Portman vowed that President Bush will veto appropriations bills - the 12 annual spending measures funding Cabinet agency budgets - that bust Bush's budget targets. The missive suggests, however, that Bush would permit Congress to move some funds from a record $50 billion Pentagon budget increase to domestic programs so long as lawmakers respect an overall "cap" on appropriated spending of $933 billion. The other two-thirds of the budget pays for benefit programs such as Medicare, Social Security and farm subsidies, as well as interest on the national debt. Portman's letter came as a $2.9 trillion congressional budget blueprint for next year is in House-Senate talks. The blueprint sets an overall limit for the 12 appropriations bills. Democrats have signaled they'll add more than $20 billion for domestic agency budgets, an above-inflation increase of about 5 percent. "The top line the president submitted is the top line that we want to hold," Portman told hard line comes as Democrats and Bush are also doing battle over funding for the war in Iraq. While much attention has been focused on Democratic efforts to force troop withdrawals, Bush also vetoed a $124 billion war funding bill over more than $20 billion in congressional add-ons such as aid to farmers. "The administration does not believe that the first step to a balanced budget should be a substantial increase in federal spending," Portman wrote. Democrats seemed unimpressed by Bush's warnings. "This is the same guy who's squirted away almost $600 billion on a stupid war and this is a guy who's riding at 28 percent in public opinion polls," said House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, D-Wis. "His word is not the last word," said Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. "The White House should step back from this petty game of brinksmanship." Bush has long battled with senior members of Congress' Appropriations committees, particularly over his attempts to freeze domestic agency budgets. But even Republicans tapped the defense budget to bolster domestic programs, and Democrats may ultimately raid Bush's eye-popping $481 billion Pentagon budget request - an 11 percent increase - to bolster domestic programs, which Bush's budget would essentially freeze at current levels. Congress' annual appropriations process typically dominates House and Senate floor schedules for the summer months as lawmakers debate budgetary minutia. The bills also provide a forum for numerous policy squabbles on topics such as abortion, relations with Cuba and whether to permit U.S. residents to purchase less expensive prescription drugs from other countries such as Canada. Bush has in fact won most of those battles, though some GOP conservatives have faulted him for not vetoing a single spending bill in his first six years in office. Bush has in the past relied on powerful GOP leaders such as former Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., to impose discipline on appropriators - a luxury he does not have now that Democrats are in charge on Capitol Hill. Now, Bush is likely to have to veto numerous bills to hold the line on spending and fend off policy "riders" such as lifting the ban on U.S. citizens traveling to Cuba. But such vetoes may lead to yet another foot-tall "omnibus" spending bill this fall as the White House and Congress stitch together post-veto compromise measures into a larger bill or bills. White House budget office: Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DEMOCRATS_LABOR?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:06 PM EDT Democratic Candidates Woo Firefighters N.H. (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidates invoked images of Sept. 11 tragedy and heroism - from a dust-caked crater in New York to bloodied firefighters - as they appealed for the endorsement of a powerful firefighters union. Firefighters emerged from the 2001 attacks as heroes, a fact not lost on the candidates wooing the International Association of Fire Fighters at a two-day meeting of union leaders. "It's hard to find anyone who will stand up and make a speech against firefighters," said Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Clinton told firefighters she appreciated their work in New York City, where two plane crashes led to the fiery collapse of the World Trade Center's Twin Towers. A cloud of smoke, dust and ash hovered for days as rescue workers searched for survivors and bodies. "As a senator from New York on 9-11, I know exactly what those sacrifices were," Clinton said. "We lost so many great firefighters that day, people who rushed into that inferno and kept going up those stairs, weighed down with 100 pounds of equipment and trying to make sure if there was anyone to save, they'd get there." Sen. Joe Biden told the firefighters he'd never forget the pictures from that day. "The one thing I remember the most was that grizzled fireman, coming out of the burning debris, hunched over, absolute determination," said Biden, of Delaware. "That one photograph lifted America off its knees. That one image was the most profound image about the determination and the grit of the entire American people that ever was shown during that event." And Sen. Chris Dodd decried the lack of improvement in communications equipment for firefighters and other safety workers since then. "I think its' a failure how, after 5 1/2 years since 9-11, we still have too many states and jurisdictions that can't talk to one another in a time of crisis," the Connecticut senator said. The union, which traditionally supports Democratic bids for the White House, backed Sen. John Kerry in 2004. The 280,000-member union has feuded with Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, excoriating him for his November 2001 decision to cut back the number of firefighters searching the rubble of Ground Zero for the remains of some 300 fallen comrades. Recently, Giuliani criticized Democrats on national security, suggesting in a New Hampshire speech that the United States could face another major terrorist attack if a Democrat is elected in 2008. Throughout the two-day conference, the Democratic candidates tried to counter that image, talking about issues key to the firefighters. Candidates pledged to support collective bargaining agreements - Clinton said they were "as American as apple pie - and better training and safer pensions. Illinois Sen. Barack Obama said more needs to be done to help firefighters secure better benefits. "Here we are, five years after 9-11 and we still have to demand health care for the men and women who did the worst work on that day," Obama said by telephone. "It's our obligation to take care of them now." And Clinton said not enough has been done to help firefighters who are suffering health problems after working on Sept. 11. "We lost so many brave firefighters that day who weren't even on duty. They came because they had to be there to help," Clinton said. "It seemed to me at that moment, whatever was required to repay the debt our country owed them, I'd want to make sure that happened." Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMMIGRATION_CONGRESS?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 4:34 PM EDT Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS Raid Captures Illegal Immigrants Shelters Provide Stability for Young Immigrants Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Churches Provide Immigrants Sanctuary LA Immigrant Activists Plan June Rally Okla. Gov. Signs Immigration Reform Bill Tighter Border First; Immigration Later Memo on Prosecution of Illegal Immigrants AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes to give a fitful set of bipartisan talks more time to yield an immigration deal, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Friday he would delay a vote on the issue until next Wednesday. The move postponed - at least for a day - what was shaping up as a partisan clash over immigration after weeks of negotiations between the White House and senators in both parties designed to strike a broad compromise. With that agreement still elusive, Reid is planning to force debate next week on an immigration measure that passed the Senate last year with wide Democratic backing but opposition by a majority of Republicans. GOP senators have promised to block that move, saying they will only accept a new bipartisan compromise. "Some of the senators feel that there's a breakthrough that could take place" in talks over the weekend and early next week, said Reid, D-Nev., adding that he would "reluctantly" postpone the test-vote, which he had set for Tuesday. He has now set the vote for next Wednesday. Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said the move would "give us the maximum opportunity to piece back together the bipartisan agreement that we thought we almost had a week or so ago." Talks are continuing on the possible deal, which would first secure the U.S.-Mexico border and implement an elaborate high-tech identification system for immigrant workers, and only then give millions of illegal immigrants a chance at legal status - after waits as long as 13 more years. Many Democrats and Republicans are wary of such an agreement, which also would limit immigrants' ability to bring their families to the U.S. Democrats fear it will be rejected as too punitive by their liberal base, while Republicans are concerned about alienating conservatives by appearing to treat illegal immigrants too leniently. President Bush plans to use his Saturday weekly radio address to urge Congress to reshape immigration laws. Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_ABORTION?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 6:22 PM EDT Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion Giuliani Backs Army Buildup Nearing 600K Giuliani Says Saddam Paying for Offenses Rudy Giuliani Assails Venezuela's Chavez Giuliani Counts Backers Who Aren't Fans Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' HOUSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani forcefully reaffirmed his support for abortion rights on Friday and argued that his divergence from conservatives on the issue should not disqualify him from being the eventual GOP nominee. "This is a matter of deep and profound judgment," he said in a speech at Houston Baptist University. "It's a matter of morals. It's a matter of your interpretation of how laws should operate, your interpretation of how respect for the rights of others should operate. But in a country like ours ... I believe you have to respect their viewpoint and give them a level of choice. I would grant women the right to make that choice." The former New York City mayor has struggled in the last week to explain his personal opposition to abortion with his long public record of favoring a woman's right to choose. He has defended his positions - and some say contradictory comments - on late-term abortion, public funding for abortions and the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion. But Giuliani left few questions about his position Friday, telling about 500 students and faculty at the small conservative school that - despite his belief that abortion was "morally wrong" - he believes the decision should ultimately be left to individuals and their decisions should be respected. Opposition to abortion has been a litmus test for conservatives within the Republican Party, who hold considerable sway in the primaries. Giuliani has drawn criticism from some in the GOP for his abortion rights support. One of his rivals, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, has switched from supporting abortion rights to opposing the procedure - a shift that also has drawn complaints. Another rival, Sam Brownback, said Friday that an abortion rights Republican would have trouble winning the nomination. His comments echoed those of another candidate, Sen. John McCain of Arizona. "It is a pro-life party, with a pro-choice wing," said the Kansas senator, who spoke during a taping of Iowa Public Television's "Iowa Press" program. "I think he has great trouble winning off of that position." Brownback also criticized Romney's switch. "I do think what will be a deal-breaker is if you flip on core issues like life, taxes, second amendment rights," he said. Giuliani, acknowledging that his position on abortion differed from that of most of his audience, urged them to consider his views on other issues as well before deciding whether to support his candidacy. "You have a right to evaluate this in figuring out if you can support me, and at what level you can support me," Giuliani said. "Everybody's got to make a choice. How important are the differences and then how important are the other issues that are involved in this election?" Giuliani emphasized his conservative credentials on tax cuts, crime and the war in Iraq. He said his eight years as mayor of New York showed he could apply conservative social and economic principles even in the face of substantial opposition. HBU President Robert Sloan said the Giuliani campaign called the university on Wednesday and asked if the candidate could speak there this week. Sloan said that, although campaign officials would not discuss why they had chosen HBU, he believed it was because Giuliani "wanted to forthrightly speak on social issues in an audience where religious matters and moral issues truly matter." Several students praised Giuliani's speech, but said it was unlikely to make them support his candidacy. "Overall, I thought it was a great speech," said Erik Mignault, a 25-year-old political science major at HBU. "I agree that we're not going to agree 100 percent with all candidates. I think it was a good political stance to take. He's sitting right in the middle." But Mignault and several other students said they were anti-abortion and likely to support a more conservative GOP candidate. Giuliani's appearance was greeted warmly, and he appeared playful at times, hoisting a child with an "I Love New York" T-shirt and laughing at boos when he spoke of his love for the New York Yankees, the team that this week acquired Houston Astros star pitcher Roger Clemens. But Giuliani told the audience that they should support a candidate who could protect America from terrorism and from Democratic assaults on the economy. He acknowledged that abortion was the issue that most divided them. "I have profound respect for your views," he said. "I have profound respect for your education, and I have profound respect for your religion." But, he said, it is uniquely American to disagree on some political issues while agreeing on many others. "We understand how to respect each other's differences," he said. Associated Press Writer Mike Glover in Johnston, Iowa, contributed to this report. Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 7:06 PM EDT Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq War Tensions Follow Bush to Commencement Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout Car Bombings Kill 23 at Baghdad Bridges Radical Iraqi Cleric Said to Be in Iran White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/L/LOBBYING_REFORM?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 3:31 PM EDT Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi Officials Discourage U.S. Pullout White House Takes Hard Line on Spending Reid Extends Negotiations on Immigration Poll: Congress, Bush Share Low Approval Lobbying Reform Losing Steam in House The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Democrats are suddenly balking at the tough lobbying reforms they touted to voters last fall as a reason for putting them in charge of Congress. Now that they are running things, many Democrats want to keep the big campaign donations and lavish parties that lobbyists put together for them. They're also having second thoughts about having to wait an extra year before they can become high-paid lobbyists themselves should they retire or be defeated at the polls. The growing resistance to several proposed reforms now threatens passage of a bill that once seemed on track to fulfill Democrats' campaign promise of cleaner fundraising and lobbying practices. "The longer we wait, the weaker the bill seems to get," said Craig Holman of Public Citizen, which has pushed for the changes. "The sense of urgency is fading," he said, in part because scandals such as those involving disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff and former Rep. Duke Cunningham, R-Calif., have given way to other news. The situation concerns some Democrats, who note their party campaigned against a "culture of corruption" in 2006, when voters ended a long run of Republican control of Congress. Several high-profile issues remained in doubt Friday, five days before the House Judiciary Committee is to take up the legislation. They include proposals to: -Require lobbyists to disclose details about large donations they arrange for politicians. -Make former lawmakers wait two years, instead of one, before lobbying Congress. -Bar lobbyists from throwing large parties for lawmakers at national political conventions. All appeared headed for adoption in January when the Senate, with much fanfare, included them in a lobby-reform bill that passed easily. But the provisions, plus many others in the bill, cannot become law unless the House concurs - and that's where feet are dragging. The issues are in danger of being dropped from the House version, a Democratic member close to the negotiations said Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity because sensitive discussions were continuing. The snags are frustrating to advocates in and out of Congress who want more restrictions and greater transparency in lobbying and fundraising. Early this year, they appeared on the edge of victory. Within hours of taking control of the House and Senate, Democrats engineered rule changes to bar lawmakers and their aides from accepting meals, gifts or trips from lobbyists or groups that employ lobbyists. They also made it far more difficult for lawmakers to slip targeted items, known as earmarks, into spending bills without divulging the source. Such "pork projects" have greatly benefited some companies with well-connected lobbyists. These rule changes are now in effect in the House. But they will not apply to the Senate unless both chambers reconcile a lobbying bill that the president signs into law. "Members of Congress ignore this issue at their peril," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who chairs his party's 2008 House campaign committee. "The public wants a Congress that is open and accountable." The chief stumbling block in the House centers on whether to require disclosures of a fundraising practice called bundling. It involves lobbyists soliciting and collecting campaign donations from other people and then presenting them in one package to the targeted candidate. Under current law, each individual check-writer must report his or her donation. But the lobbyist-bundlers, who use the practice to ingratiate themselves to politicians, often go undetected. Meaningful disclosure of bundling "is the defining issue of this bill" and must remain in the House version, said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a private group that supports greater transparency in government. However, resistance from some House members is so strong that Democratic leaders are thinking of dropping the bundling language from the bill, and perhaps allowing proponents to offer it later as an amendment or separate legislation. Some House members also oppose the Senate bill's tougher restrictions on retired lawmakers who plan to become lobbyists. Under current law, such retirees can immediately begin drawing pay for lobby-related activities so long as they do not contact former colleagues for one year. The Senate bill would extend the "cooling off" period to two years, and apply the ban to all lobbying activities, not just direct contacts with lawmakers. Some House members also dislike a Senate provision that would bar lobbying groups from throwing parties in honor of lawmakers at national nominating conventions. Critics call the practice a way for interest groups to ingratiate themselves with powerful officials. Meanwhile, public advocacy groups want the House and Senate to adopt tougher reporting requirements for groups that hire lobbyists to help organize supposedly grass-roots campaigns to influence Congress. One proposal would require disclosures by lobbying firms that receive at least $100,000 in a quarter for "paid communications campaigns" aimed at mobilizing the public on a given issue. Groups such as Common Cause and Democracy 21 say massive special-interest campaigns can largely hide their donors' identities because current disclosure laws apply only to direct lobbying of Congress. But organizations spanning the political spectrum oppose the idea, saying it could discourage citizens from exercising their right to petition the government. Groups urging lawmakers to reject the proposal include the American Civil Liberties Union, National Right to Life Committee and Eagle Forum. House members and aides said it was unclear whether the grass-roots proposal, which is not in the Senate bill, will be added to the House measure. The Senate bill is S. 1 Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/OBAMA_MEDICARE?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 4:07 PM EDT Obama Assails Private Medicare Plans Obama Assails Private Medicare Plans Officials Detail Medicare-Bilking Scheme GAO to Release Report on Medicare Veteran Official to Be Medicare Chief Photos of Barack Obama Obama Assails Private Medicare Plans Obama Renews Pressing Grassley on Iraq Obama Overstates Kansas Tornado Deaths Obama: U.S. Auto Fuel Efficiency Lacking Michelle Obama Campaigns for Husband Video: Obama's Speaking Style Barack Obama: The AP Interview Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- Democratic presidential hopeful Barack Obama on Friday proposed cutting government subsidies to private insurance companies under Medicare by $150 billion over the next decade. Campaigning for support in next winter's caucuses, Obama said the money could be used to strengthen the Medicare program overall, including a reduction in the prices seniors pay for prescription drug prices. "We don't do that because we are not setting the agenda in Washington, insurance companies and drug companies are. That's what people want to turn the page on," the Illinois senator said to loud applause. "We want a system that's fair and sensible to everyone." Obama's campaign said more than 53,000 Iowans are enrolled in private plans under the so-called Medicare Advantage program. They likely would face a reduction in coverage or an increase in out-of-pocket costs if the government cut its payments to the insurance companies. Supporters of these programs nationally say they provide additional benefits, such as eyeglass coverage, and often offer better care than the government-run program. Critics contend the government's subsidies are far too generous for the care provided, and should be reduced. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent group that advises Congress on the program, estimates that the government pays $112 a year to cover a Medicare beneficiary in a private plan for every $100 it pays for the traditional fee for service program. Obama proposed eliminating the difference. At least part of the gap results from legislation that Congress passed in recent years to increase payments in rural areas, an attempt to make sure seniors in sparsely populated regions have a choice of health care. In a written statement accompanying his appearance, Obama said, "we shouldn't be rewarding the insurance industry for deceiving and defrauding our seniors, we should be doing everything we can to stop them." A campaign spokesman, Bill Burton, said the Illinois Democrat did not intend to label all insurance companies operating Medicare Advantage plans as deceitful. "Besides some bad actors here, as MedPAC, the independent body that advises Congress on this issue, has pointed out, these overpayments appear to be driving up Medicare costs," he said. Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/ROMNEY_WEALTH?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 7:04 PM EDT Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Photos of Mitt Romney Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Critics Fault Romney's Abortion Record Romney Assails Sharpton's Mormon Comment Sharpton Denies Disputing Romney's Faith Romney Ad Touts Plan to Expand Military Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Mitt Romney is expected to report financial assets between $190 million and $250 million, an amount that would likely make him the wealthiest of the 2008 presidential candidates. Aides to the former Massachusetts governor said his assets have been held in a blind trust that he and his wife set up when he took office in 2002. The adviser who provided the estimate of his assets cautioned that the number is based on 2005 and 2006 financial activity and could amount to a bigger total once the disclosure report is filed later this year. The adviser spoke on condition of anonymity because the totals have not been officially released. The deadline for filing financial disclosures is Tuesday but Romney on Friday obtained an extension. Romney lent his campaign $2 million this year and could clearly tap his wealth again if necessary. Romney is not the wealthiest candidate ever to run for president. Steve Forbes, who ran unsuccessfully for the GOP nomination in 1996, had an estimate net worth of more than $430 million. John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, reported a net worth between $165 million and $235 million in 2005, most of it controlled by his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry. Under federal law, officials who are required to divulge their finances must only list their assets and income in broad ranges, making it impossible to pinpoint their exact wealth. Romney also has a blind trust for his children and grandchildren that is estimated to hold assets between $70 million and $100 million, the adviser said. Those assets do not benefit Romney or his wife and are not required to be reported in federal financial disclosures. Romney has five sons, five daughters-in-law and 10 grandchildren. In 1984, Romney founded Bain Capital, an investment company that helped finance Staples, Domino's Pizza and Brookstone. He then became interim CEO at Bain and Co., the consulting firm where he had worked in the early 1980s. He was credited with pulling Bain and Co., out of financial straits. Romney, 60, also was CEO of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics. In the 2008 race, Romney surprised the Republican field by raising more than $20 million for his campaign in the first three months of the year, outpacing GOP front-runners Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, and Arizona Sen. John McCain. The estimated total is the first glimpse of Romney's wealth since he has been a public official. Aides said his holdings are complicated, spread across partnerships, investment funds and hedge funds. One adviser said obtaining the underlying assets of the hedge fund alone is "a pretty arduous task." Romney received permission Friday from the Federal Election Commission to delay the official filing of his financial disclosure documents for 45 days beyond Tuesday's deadline. Candidates are entitled to obtain two extensions of up to 45 days each. Most presidential candidates have yet to file their reports. Romney communications director Matt Rhoades said the trustee for Romney's blind trust and "advisers are working diligently to complete the voluminous and complex process and we'll comply with the law." Romney's top rivals, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, also are wealthy men. McCain, an Arizona senator, amassed most of his money through investments and holdings controlled by his wife, Cindy, an heiress to a major beer distributor, Hensley & Co., founded by her father. Estimates put their net worth at between $20-$32 million. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, earned his fortune from a multitude of business consulting ventures and paid speeches after leaving office. He received $11.4 million in speaking fees in 2006 alone, an average of about $88,000 a speech. Among Democrats, John Edwards, a former trial lawyer, listed his net worth at between $12.8 million and $60 million in 2003, his last report. Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a 2005 Senate financial disclosure, listed her net worth at between $10 million and $50 million. Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=TXWIC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Find Lowest Gas Prices How Now Joe Brown Make us your homepage May 11, 5:35 PM EDT Ex-U.S. Attorney Questions Own Firing of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Ex-U.S. Attorney Questions Own Firing Gonzales Deflects Democrats' Criticism Excerpts From Gonzales Hearing former West Virginia federal prosecutor said Friday the White House fired him in 2005 in the middle of a corruption and vote-buying investigation but never told him why. Karl K. "Kasey" Warner said he has "concerns" and sees parallels between himself and eight other ousted U.S. attorneys. Congress and an internal Justice Department agency are investigating whether those firings were politically motivated. The Justice Department rejected any suggestion of politics in Warner's dismissal. "The notion that the termination was political is absolutely false," spokesman Dean Boyd said. "We encourage Mr. Warner to provide the department with a written privacy waiver and we will be happy to provide you with the reason for his removal." Warner would not elaborate on what concerned him about his August 2005 firing but rejected the idea that he was fired over his performance. "The facts speak for themselves. Look into how I ran my office. See how I managed the office," Warner said. "If they want to look at the cases I had and the corruption cases we have now, people can come to their own conclusions about why I was let go." Warner said he refused to resign when asked by the Justice Department, responding that he took his direction from President Bush. "Next thing I know, I get a letter from the president's counsel, Harriet Miers, saying I'd been fired, no reason given," Warner recounted in a telephone interview. A state legislative audit later revealed e-mails in which Warner had offered to secretly contribute to a 2004 county political campaign. "Let me try to steer some contributions your way (gently) and perhaps use a family member with a different last name to make my contribution," Warner wrote in one July 2003 e-mail, according to the audit. Warner said he never followed through on the offer and discounted that as a reason behind his departure. Warner was nominated by Bush in 2001 to serve as the top federal prosecutor in southern West Virginia. The heavily Democratic district is the center of the state's coal industry. Bush carried the state in both 2000 and 2004. Almost immediately Warner made public corruption and vote-buying cases a priority, sometimes to the ire of Democrats who accused him of targeting them for political purposes. Warner's brother Kris was the Republican state party chairman, and his brother Monty ran for governor. Some former U.S. attorneys such as New Mexico's David Iglesias said Republican politicians pressured them to rush public corruption investigations in election years. Warner would not comment on whether he received any such pressure and would not say who was being investigated when he was fired. "Speaking generally," he said, "in my mind, if you want a good justice system, you don't remove U.S. attorneys to thwart ongoing criminal investigations." Attorney General Alberto Gonzales has denied that politics influenced hiring and firing decisions. And though Gonzales has apologized for mishandling the controversy, he has rejected calls from lawmakers to step down. The Justice Department has also said it never tried to influence an investigation for political reasons. An internal probe is under way. Warner's statements came on the heels of those by former western Missouri U.S. Attorney Todd Graves, who said he was forced out in March 2006. Graves said he fell out of favor with the Justice Department after refusing to cooperate with the filing of a Missouri voter fraud lawsuit a year before the 2006 election. Congress is holding hearings on the eight other firings, and former Justice Department White House liaison Monica Goodling is shaping up to be a main witness. A federal judge approved an immunity deal for her Friday, allowing her to testify without fear of prosecution. Warner's statements echo those by former Maryland U.S. Attorney Thomas M. DiBiagio, who in March said he believed he was fired for investigating corruption in a Republican governor's administration. The Justice Department said DiBiagio was fired for writing e-mails calling for "front-page" corruption indictments before Election Day. Warner said that, if asked, he would cooperate with any investigation. But he said he has made peace with his termination and is not trying to become part of the Capitol Hill story line. That's why the former Army officer said he has not approached investigators. "Sometimes soldiers catch a bullet. If you're truly out there doing your job, if you're truly a leader, sometimes you catch a bullet," he said. "It might not be fair, it might not be right, it might be sad, but that's part of what you do. I caught a bullet. It's not something you cry about or complain about." Associated Press writers Lara Jakes Jordan in Washington and Lawrence Messina in Charleston, W.Va., contributed to this report. Wichita Falls Times Record News Email Tony Kouri (940-720-3412) Other E.W. Scripps sites:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 5:07 AM EDT Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout House Agrees to Fund Iraq War Through July Bush Calls on Congress to Be Patient With Iraq It is now the Senate's turn to approve a bill to fund the war in Iraq. A-P correspondent Jerry Bodlander reports. The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Iraq attack leaves 5 GIs dead; 3 missing Al-Hakim calls for 'security agreement' Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout War tensions follow Bush to commencement U.S. military deaths in Iraq at 3,386 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout GOP committee choice criticized White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Congress' support for Iraq is deteriorating rapidly, Baghdad dispatched senior officials to Capitol Hill this week to warn members one-on-one that pulling out U.S. troops would have disastrous consequences. The lobbying push targeted Republicans and Democrats alike, but focused primarily on those considered influential on the war debate. On Thursday, hours before the House voted to limit funds for the war, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Barham Saleh met with more than 30 House Republicans and more than a half-dozen senators, including Sens. Harry Reid, D-Nev., John Warner, R-Va., and Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y. "He understands that American patience is waning," said Sen. Norm Coleman, after eating lunch with Saleh, Iraqi Ambassador Samir Shakir al-Sumaidaie and Sen. Saxby Chambliss. But the lobbying by the Iraqis isn't the only pressure-point being applied in Washington. Clinton said Friday she considered it "promising" that several Republican House members went to the White House and told President Bush they believe the continuing war is adversely affecting the party. She said the GOP lawmakers told Bush pointblank that "he has to change course in Iraq." But she also said she didn't think that Bush was ready to reverse course. "I think we're going to go back and forth on this for a while longer," Clinton said in an interview Friday on MSNBC's "Morning Joe" program with Joe Scarborough. "It is clear that whatever the mission used to be, it is either accomplished or over," she said. "If there are remaining American interests, then let's spell them out." Baghdad's ability to sell members like Coleman, R-Minn., and Chambliss, R-Ga., on the war effort is critical if the Iraqi government wants U.S. troops to stay. Coleman in recent months has become deeply skeptical of the president's decision to send additional troops to Iraq and says patience on the war in general is limited. Coleman, Chambliss and Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H., who met separately with Saleh, will be up for re-election next year - facing voters who have grown tired of a war in its fifth year and that has killed more than 3,380 troops. While Republicans have been reluctant to intervene, many say President Bush has until September to tell if the troop buildup in Iraq is working before they demand another approach. With the clock ticking, Saleh - a Kurdish politician highly regarded by U.S. officials and who speaks impeccable English - said he came to Capitol Hill to convey the "imperative of success" in Iraq. "Iraq is a central battleground in this historic conflict" against terrorism, he said in a brief interview after meeting with Reid, the Senate majority leader. His trip came on the heels of a visit by Mowaffak al-Rubaie, the national security adviser to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, along with three other senior advisers, according to the Iraqi embassy. The New York Times first reported al-Rubaie's visit on Tuesday. The timing of these meetings is no mistake. This month, Congress is expected to send Bush legislation that funds the war in Iraq but requires the Baghdad government meet certain political and security reforms. In question is what consequences the Iraqis should face if they fail. Democrats want U.S. troops to leave, Republicans say they don't want to force redeployments, but some say they would be open to withholding more than $5 billion in foreign aid. The House voted 221-205 Thursday for a stronger measure that would fund the war only through July, giving Congress the option of cutting off money after that. The bill is unlikely to survive in the Senate, although it indicates the war's unpopularity among members and their frustration with the lack of progress in the Iraqi parliament. The most recent irritant among U.S. lawmakers was a report that Iraqi officials would break for two months this summer. "Our armed forces are up to 150,000 troops; we're over $600 billion appropriated for this, lost 3,300 lives, 25,000 wounded fellow citizens. ... And the Iraqi answer? We're taking a summer off. Goin' fishing," said Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill. Saleh said he expects the vacation to be shortened by at least a month, although nothing had been decided. He added that Iraqis value being independent and do "not take kindly of (U.S. officials) telling us when to recess." Democrats seemed to consider these meetings with Iraqi officials as beneficial - if only to convey their frustration to Iraqi officials in person. Reid's spokesman Jim Manley said the senator told Saleh that "U.S. patience, blood and treasure were not unlimited and that the Congress would be taking a more decisive role in the coming weeks and months." "Salih understood the point, and said he would deliver the message to the Iraqi cabinet," Manley added. &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/ROMNEY_WEALTH?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 3:28 AM EDT Romney's estimated wealth in millions Photos of Mitt Romney Romney's estimated wealth in millions Critics fault Romney's abortion record Romney assails Sharpton's Mormon comment Sharpton denies disputing Romney's faith Romney ad touts plan to expand military Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Mitt Romney is expected to report financial assets between $190 million and $250 million, an amount that would likely make him the wealthiest of the 2008 presidential candidates. Aides to the former Massachusetts governor said his assets have been held in a blind trust that he and his wife set up when he took office in 2002. The adviser who provided the estimate of his assets cautioned that the number is based on 2005 and 2006 financial activity and could amount to a bigger total once the disclosure report is filed later this year. The adviser spoke on condition of anonymity because the totals have not been officially released. The deadline for filing financial disclosures is Tuesday but Romney on Friday obtained an extension. Romney lent his campaign $2 million this year and could clearly tap his wealth again if necessary. Romney is not the wealthiest candidate ever to run for president. Steve Forbes, who ran unsuccessfully for the GOP nomination in 1996, had an estimate net worth of more than $430 million. John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, reported a net worth between $165 million and $235 million in 2005, most of it controlled by his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry. Under federal law, officials who are required to divulge their finances must only list their assets and income in broad ranges, making it impossible to pinpoint their exact wealth. Romney also has a blind trust for his children and grandchildren that is estimated to hold assets between $70 million and $100 million, the adviser said. Those assets do not benefit Romney or his wife and are not required to be reported in federal financial disclosures. Romney has five sons, five daughters-in-law and 10 grandchildren. In 1984, Romney founded Bain Capital, an investment company that helped finance Staples, Domino's Pizza and Brookstone. He then became interim CEO at Bain and Co., the consulting firm where he had worked in the early 1980s. He was credited with pulling Bain and Co., out of financial straits. Romney, 60, also was CEO of the Salt Lake Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympics. In the 2008 race, Romney surprised the Republican field by raising more than $20 million for his campaign in the first three months of the year, outpacing GOP front-runners Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, and Arizona Sen. John McCain. The estimated total is the first glimpse of Romney's wealth since he has been a public official. Aides said his holdings are complicated, spread across partnerships, investment funds and hedge funds. One adviser said obtaining the underlying assets of the hedge fund alone is "a pretty arduous task." Romney received permission Friday from the Federal Election Commission to delay the official filing of his financial disclosure documents for 45 days beyond Tuesday's deadline. Candidates are entitled to obtain two extensions of up to 45 days each. Most presidential candidates have yet to file their reports. Romney communications director Matt Rhoades said the trustee for Romney's blind trust and "advisers are working diligently to complete the voluminous and complex process and we'll comply with the law." Romney's top rivals, Rudy Giuliani and John McCain, also are wealthy men. McCain, an Arizona senator, amassed most of his money through investments and holdings controlled by his wife, Cindy, an heiress to a major beer distributor, Hensley & Co., founded by her father. Estimates put their net worth at between $20-$32 million. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, earned his fortune from a multitude of business consulting ventures and paid speeches after leaving office. He received $11.4 million in speaking fees in 2006 alone, an average of about $88,000 a speech. Among Democrats, John Edwards, a former trial lawyer, listed his net worth at between $12.8 million and $60 million in 2003, his last report. Hillary Rodham Clinton, in a 2005 Senate financial disclosure, listed her net worth at between $10 million and $50 million. &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/OBAMA_MEDICARE?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 12, 5:46 AM EDT Obama assails private Medicare plans Obama assails private Medicare plans Officials detail Medicare-bilking scheme GAO to release report on medicare Veteran official to be Medicare chief Photos of Barack Obama Obama assails private Medicare plans Obama renews pressing Grassley on Iraq Obama overstates Kansas tornado deaths Obama: U.S. auto fuel efficiency lacking Michelle Obama campaigns for husband Video: Obama's Speaking Style Barack Obama: The AP Interview Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- Democratic presidential hopeful Barack Obama on Friday proposed cutting government subsidies to private insurance companies under Medicare by $150 billion over the next decade. Campaigning for support in next winter's caucuses, Obama said the money could be used to strengthen the Medicare program overall, including a reduction in the prices seniors pay for prescription drug prices. "We don't do that because we are not setting the agenda in Washington, insurance companies and drug companies are. That's what people want to turn the page on," the Illinois senator said to loud applause. "We want a system that's fair and sensible to everyone." Obama's campaign said more than 53,000 Iowans are enrolled in private plans under the so-called Medicare Advantage program. They likely would face a reduction in coverage or an increase in out-of-pocket costs if the government cut its payments to the insurance companies. Supporters of these programs nationally say they provide additional benefits, such as eyeglass coverage, and often offer better care than the government-run program. Critics contend the government's subsidies are far too generous for the care provided, and should be reduced. The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent group that advises Congress on the program, estimates that the government pays $112 a year to cover a Medicare beneficiary in a private plan for every $100 it pays for the traditional fee for service program. Obama proposed eliminating the difference. At least part of the gap results from legislation that Congress passed in recent years to increase payments in rural areas, an attempt to make sure seniors in sparsely populated regions have a choice of health care. In a written statement accompanying his appearance, Obama said, "we shouldn't be rewarding the insurance industry for deceiving and defrauding our seniors, we should be doing everything we can to stop them." A campaign spokesman, Bill Burton, said the Illinois Democrat did not intend to label all insurance companies operating Medicare Advantage plans as deceitful. "Besides some bad actors here, as MedPAC, the independent body that advises Congress on this issue, has pointed out, these overpayments appear to be driving up Medicare costs," he said. &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BUSH_SPENDING?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 7:53 PM EDT White House takes hard line on spending AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout GOP committee choice criticized White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes White House struck a hard line on spending Friday, warning Democrats in Congress that their efforts to boost domestic programs such as education would provoke vetoes this fall. In a letter to lawmakers, White House budget chief Rob Portman vowed that President Bush will veto appropriations bills - the 12 annual spending measures funding Cabinet agency budgets - that bust Bush's budget targets. The missive suggests, however, that Bush would permit Congress to move some funds from a record $50 billion Pentagon budget increase to domestic programs so long as lawmakers respect an overall "cap" on appropriated spending of $933 billion. The other two-thirds of the budget pays for benefit programs such as Medicare, Social Security and farm subsidies, as well as interest on the national debt. Portman's letter came as a $2.9 trillion congressional budget blueprint for next year is in House-Senate talks. The blueprint sets an overall limit for the 12 appropriations bills. Democrats have signaled they'll add more than $20 billion for domestic agency budgets, an above-inflation increase of about 5 percent. "The top line the president submitted is the top line that we want to hold," Portman told hard line comes as Democrats and Bush are also doing battle over funding for the war in Iraq. While much attention has been focused on Democratic efforts to force troop withdrawals, Bush also vetoed a $124 billion war funding bill over more than $20 billion in congressional add-ons such as aid to farmers. "The administration does not believe that the first step to a balanced budget should be a substantial increase in federal spending," Portman wrote. Democrats seemed unimpressed by Bush's warnings. "This is the same guy who's squirted away almost $600 billion on a stupid war and this is a guy who's riding at 28 percent in public opinion polls," said House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey, D-Wis. "His word is not the last word," said Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd, D-W.Va. "The White House should step back from this petty game of brinksmanship." Bush has long battled with senior members of Congress' Appropriations committees, particularly over his attempts to freeze domestic agency budgets. But even Republicans tapped the defense budget to bolster domestic programs, and Democrats may ultimately raid Bush's eye-popping $481 billion Pentagon budget request - an 11 percent increase - to bolster domestic programs, which Bush's budget would essentially freeze at current levels. Congress' annual appropriations process typically dominates House and Senate floor schedules for the summer months as lawmakers debate budgetary minutia. The bills also provide a forum for numerous policy squabbles on topics such as abortion, relations with Cuba and whether to permit U.S. residents to purchase less expensive prescription drugs from other countries such as Canada. Bush has in fact won most of those battles, though some GOP conservatives have faulted him for not vetoing a single spending bill in his first six years in office. Bush has in the past relied on powerful GOP leaders such as former Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., to impose discipline on appropriators - a luxury he does not have now that Democrats are in charge on Capitol Hill. Now, Bush is likely to have to veto numerous bills to hold the line on spending and fend off policy "riders" such as lifting the ban on U.S. citizens traveling to Cuba. But such vetoes may lead to yet another foot-tall "omnibus" spending bill this fall as the White House and Congress stitch together post-veto compromise measures into a larger bill or bills. White House budget office: &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/L/LOBBYING_REFORM?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 3:31 PM EDT Lobbying reform losing steam in House AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout GOP committee choice criticized White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes Democrats are suddenly balking at the tough lobbying reforms they touted to voters last fall as a reason for putting them in charge of Congress. Now that they are running things, many Democrats want to keep the big campaign donations and lavish parties that lobbyists put together for them. They're also having second thoughts about having to wait an extra year before they can become high-paid lobbyists themselves should they retire or be defeated at the polls. The growing resistance to several proposed reforms now threatens passage of a bill that once seemed on track to fulfill Democrats' campaign promise of cleaner fundraising and lobbying practices. "The longer we wait, the weaker the bill seems to get," said Craig Holman of Public Citizen, which has pushed for the changes. "The sense of urgency is fading," he said, in part because scandals such as those involving disgraced lobbyist Jack Abramoff and former Rep. Duke Cunningham, R-Calif., have given way to other news. The situation concerns some Democrats, who note their party campaigned against a "culture of corruption" in 2006, when voters ended a long run of Republican control of Congress. Several high-profile issues remained in doubt Friday, five days before the House Judiciary Committee is to take up the legislation. They include proposals to: -Require lobbyists to disclose details about large donations they arrange for politicians. -Make former lawmakers wait two years, instead of one, before lobbying Congress. -Bar lobbyists from throwing large parties for lawmakers at national political conventions. All appeared headed for adoption in January when the Senate, with much fanfare, included them in a lobby-reform bill that passed easily. But the provisions, plus many others in the bill, cannot become law unless the House concurs - and that's where feet are dragging. The issues are in danger of being dropped from the House version, a Democratic member close to the negotiations said Thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity because sensitive discussions were continuing. The snags are frustrating to advocates in and out of Congress who want more restrictions and greater transparency in lobbying and fundraising. Early this year, they appeared on the edge of victory. Within hours of taking control of the House and Senate, Democrats engineered rule changes to bar lawmakers and their aides from accepting meals, gifts or trips from lobbyists or groups that employ lobbyists. They also made it far more difficult for lawmakers to slip targeted items, known as earmarks, into spending bills without divulging the source. Such "pork projects" have greatly benefited some companies with well-connected lobbyists. These rule changes are now in effect in the House. But they will not apply to the Senate unless both chambers reconcile a lobbying bill that the president signs into law. "Members of Congress ignore this issue at their peril," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen, D-Md., who chairs his party's 2008 House campaign committee. "The public wants a Congress that is open and accountable." The chief stumbling block in the House centers on whether to require disclosures of a fundraising practice called bundling. It involves lobbyists soliciting and collecting campaign donations from other people and then presenting them in one package to the targeted candidate. Under current law, each individual check-writer must report his or her donation. But the lobbyist-bundlers, who use the practice to ingratiate themselves to politicians, often go undetected. Meaningful disclosure of bundling "is the defining issue of this bill" and must remain in the House version, said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a private group that supports greater transparency in government. However, resistance from some House members is so strong that Democratic leaders are thinking of dropping the bundling language from the bill, and perhaps allowing proponents to offer it later as an amendment or separate legislation. Some House members also oppose the Senate bill's tougher restrictions on retired lawmakers who plan to become lobbyists. Under current law, such retirees can immediately begin drawing pay for lobby-related activities so long as they do not contact former colleagues for one year. The Senate bill would extend the "cooling off" period to two years, and apply the ban to all lobbying activities, not just direct contacts with lawmakers. Some House members also dislike a Senate provision that would bar lobbying groups from throwing parties in honor of lawmakers at national nominating conventions. Critics call the practice a way for interest groups to ingratiate themselves with powerful officials. Meanwhile, public advocacy groups want the House and Senate to adopt tougher reporting requirements for groups that hire lobbyists to help organize supposedly grass-roots campaigns to influence Congress. One proposal would require disclosures by lobbying firms that receive at least $100,000 in a quarter for "paid communications campaigns" aimed at mobilizing the public on a given issue. Groups such as Common Cause and Democracy 21 say massive special-interest campaigns can largely hide their donors' identities because current disclosure laws apply only to direct lobbying of Congress. But organizations spanning the political spectrum oppose the idea, saying it could discourage citizens from exercising their right to petition the government. Groups urging lawmakers to reject the proposal include the American Civil Liberties Union, National Right to Life Committee and Eagle Forum. House members and aides said it was unclear whether the grass-roots proposal, which is not in the Senate bill, will be added to the House measure. The Senate bill is S. 1 &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_ABORTION?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 10:43 PM EDT Giuliani defends stance on abortion how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani defends stance on abortion Giuliani backs Army buildup nearing 600K Giuliani says Saddam paying for offenses Rudy Giuliani assails Venezuela's Chavez Giuliani counts backers who aren't fans Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' HOUSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani forcefully reaffirmed his support for abortion rights on Friday and argued that his divergence from conservatives on the issue should not disqualify him from being the eventual GOP nominee. "This is a matter of deep and profound judgment," he said in a speech at Houston Baptist University. "It's a matter of morals. It's a matter of your interpretation of how laws should operate, your interpretation of how respect for the rights of others should operate. But in a country like ours ... I believe you have to respect their viewpoint and give them a level of choice. I would grant women the right to make that choice." The former New York City mayor has struggled in the last week to explain his personal opposition to abortion with his long public record of favoring a woman's right to choose. He has defended his positions - and some say contradictory comments - on late-term abortion, public funding for abortions and the 1973 Supreme Court ruling that legalized abortion. But Giuliani left few questions about his position Friday, telling about 500 students and faculty at the small conservative school that - despite his belief that abortion was "morally wrong" - he believes the decision should ultimately be left to individuals and their decisions should be respected. Opposition to abortion has been a litmus test for conservatives within the Republican Party, who hold considerable sway in the primaries. Giuliani has drawn criticism from some in the GOP for his abortion rights support. One of his rivals, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, has switched from supporting abortion rights to opposing the procedure - a shift that also has drawn complaints. Another rival, Sam Brownback, said Friday that an abortion rights Republican would have trouble winning the nomination. His comments echoed those of another candidate, Sen. John McCain of Arizona. "It is a pro-life party, with a pro-choice wing," said the Kansas senator, who spoke during a taping of Iowa Public Television's "Iowa Press" program. "I think he has great trouble winning off of that position." Brownback also criticized Romney's switch. "I do think what will be a deal-breaker is if you flip on core issues like life, taxes, second amendment rights," he said. Giuliani, acknowledging that his position on abortion differed from that of most of his audience, urged them to consider his views on other issues as well before deciding whether to support his candidacy. "You have a right to evaluate this in figuring out if you can support me, and at what level you can support me," Giuliani said. "Everybody's got to make a choice. How important are the differences and then how important are the other issues that are involved in this election?" Giuliani emphasized his conservative credentials on tax cuts, crime and the war in Iraq. He said his eight years as mayor of New York showed he could apply conservative social and economic principles even in the face of substantial opposition. HBU President Robert Sloan said the Giuliani campaign called the university on Wednesday and asked if the candidate could speak there this week. Sloan said that, although campaign officials would not discuss why they had chosen HBU, he believed it was because Giuliani "wanted to forthrightly speak on social issues in an audience where religious matters and moral issues truly matter." Several students praised Giuliani's speech, but said it was unlikely to make them support his candidacy. "Overall, I thought it was a great speech," said Erik Mignault, a 25-year-old political science major at HBU. "I agree that we're not going to agree 100 percent with all candidates. I think it was a good political stance to take. He's sitting right in the middle." But Mignault and several other students said they were anti-abortion and likely to support a more conservative GOP candidate. Giuliani's appearance was greeted warmly, and he appeared playful at times, hoisting a child with an "I Love New York" T-shirt and laughing at boos when he spoke of his love for the New York Yankees, the team that this week acquired Houston Astros star pitcher Roger Clemens. But Giuliani told the audience that they should support a candidate who could protect America from terrorism and from Democratic assaults on the economy. He acknowledged that abortion was the issue that most divided them. "I have profound respect for your views," he said. "I have profound respect for your education, and I have profound respect for your religion." But, he said, it is uniquely American to disagree on some political issues while agreeing on many others. "We understand how to respect each other's differences," he said. Associated Press Writer Mike Glover in Johnston, Iowa, contributed to this report. &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RICHARDSON_LENO?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 10:38 PM EDT Richardson on Tonight Show FE (AP) -- Democratic presidential hopeful Bill Richardson bantered with comedian Jay Leno about hitchhiking, baseball and diplomacy as the New Mexico governor appeared Friday on "The Tonight Show." He's "the most qualified presidential candidate you have never heard of," Leno proclaimed in his introduction. Richardson, elected governor twice, also served in Congress, was U.N. ambassador and energy secretary in the Clinton administration and has been nominated for the Nobel Peace prize. During his appearance, taped Friday afternoon in Los Angeles, Richardson recounted his experiences as an unofficial diplomatic troubleshooter which over the years took him to such places as Sudan, North Korea and Saddam Hussein's Iraq, where he negotiated the release of American hostages in 1995. "We don't practice diplomacy enough," said Richardson. "We ought to talk to our enemies. We ought to practice diplomacy and mediation and negotiation before we send our troops." Born in California, Richardson was raised in Mexico before attending prep school and college in Massachusetts. "My mother only spoke Spanish to me. She was Mexican. My father. He wouldn't speak to me," said Richardson, drawing chuckles from Leno. "But when he did, he would speak to me in English. It was totally a bilingual background." Richardson recounted how he met his wife, Barbara, while hitchhiking when he was attending Middlesex School in Concord, Mass. "So you would encourage women, if you see Mexican guys hitchhiking, pick them up," said Leno. Richardson was a baseball standout during his prep school days, Leno pointed out, and the show featured a picture of the young Richardson. "By the way that was a few pounds ago," said Richardson, who has been dieting to slim down for presidential campaign appearances. &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ON_THE_2008_TRAIL?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 7:57 PM EDT Romney cites Scripture on gay marriage Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney is defending his opposition to gay marriage by citing the Scriptures. The former Massachusetts governor, who in his 1994 Senate bid pledged to be a more effective champion for gay causes than his Democratic rival, discussed gay marriage in an interview set to air Sunday on CBS' "60 Minutes." "This isn't just some temporary convenience here on Earth, but we're people that are designed to live together as male and female and we're gonna have families," he tells interviewer Mike Wallace, according to an excerpt CBS released Friday. "And that, there's a great line in the Bible that children are an inheritance of the Lord and happy is he who has or hath his quiver full of them." Romney, seeking to become the first Mormon president, also tries to allay any concerns about his religion. "What's at the heart of my faith is a belief that there's a creator, that we're all children of the same God, and that fundamentally the relationship you have with your spouse is important and eternal," Romney said over the course of two interviews, one of which was taped at his vacation home in Wolfeboro, N.H. Meanwhile, Romney also is on the cover of the latest edition of Time magazine. In its main story, Time writes, "The closest he has ever come to a personal religious crisis, he recalls, was when he was in college and considering whether to go off on a mission, as his grandfather, father and brother had done. ... He says he also felt guilty about the draft deferment he would get for it, when other young men his age were heading for Vietnam." Romney offered a slightly different tale during an interview with the Boston Herald during his 1994 U.S. Senate campaign. "I didn't go on a mission to avoid the draft," Romney said at the time. "I never asked my dad (Michigan Gov. George Romney) in any way to be involved with the draft board. "Romney, however, acknowledged he did not have any desire to serve in the military during his college and missionary days, especially after he married and became a father," the newspaper wrote. "'I was not planning on signing up for the military,' he said. It was not my desire to go off and serve in Vietnam, but nor did I take any actions to remove myself from the pool of young men who were eligible for the draft. If drafted, I would have been happy to serve, and if I didn't get drafted I was happy to be with my wife and new child.'" PORTSMOUTH, N.H. (AP) - Presidential candidate John McCain has made another change in his struggling campaign, dismissing his New Hampshire campaign manager on Friday. Jim Martin had run the Arizona Republican's campaign in the state and was part of McCain's 2000 victory in the state. But the campaign decided to replace him with Jim Barnett, who had been a top political operative. McCain's New Hampshire Communications Director Jill Hazelbaker said the departure came Friday. "While we appreciate his hard work, Jim Barnett will assume the day-to-day responsibilities going forward," she said. "Barnett is a talented political professional with extensive campaign experience, and he will work closely with Mike Dennehy to build out our ground operation to ensure that we win the primary." Barnett had served as chairman of the Vermont Republican Party and joined the McCain campaign as the regional political director. "We need someone who knows what it takes on every level of a campaign and understand a get-out-the-vote process. Jim Barnett is that person," said Dennehy, a McCain consultant who stepped down earlier this week as national political director and returned to help New Hampshire's office. Earlier this year, McCain restructured his campaign fundraising organization after a lackluster first quarter. EXETER, N.H. (AP) - Two days before Mother's Day, Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Rodham Clinton appeared with a group of New Hampshire moms to highlight what she called the "inequities and absurdities" that prevent children from receiving quality health care. "I think one of the greatest gifts you can give any mother is the health of a child," Clinton said Friday at Exeter Hospital, where the three mothers who joined her on stage did most of the talking. AnnMarie Morse of Candia described her crusade to change state law after her daughter died of colon cancer in 2005. Michelle Morse, 22, had continued to attend college full-time during her chemotherapy to keep her health insurance. Under what became known as "Michelle's Law," insurance companies that cover college students under their parents' plans must continue the coverage if a student takes a medical leave of absence. Clinton, a sponsor of federal legislation that would expand Michelle's Law nationwide, called Morse's story one of many examples of a parent who does all the right things, but still struggles with health insurance. "You think you've taken care of your family. You've been paying your insurance premiums, and when you need it the most it's not there for you," she said. "It's one of the reasons we need to change the whole system, but until we can change the whole system, we have to try to get rid of the inequities and absurdities that stand in the way of people getting the care they deserve and need." NEW YORK (AP) - Despite constant denials that he is running for president, New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg laid out a national energy plan Friday and took veiled jabs at his potential opponents, accusing them of "politics as usual." The Republican billionaire outlined an energy plan that proposes creating profit motives for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, building new wind farms and nuclear plants, phasing out incandescent light bulbs and setting early deadlines to accomplish these goals. Bloomberg, who recently launched an effort to drastically reduce pollution by 2030 in New York City, suggested that those who set later deadlines like 2050 and 2070 are afraid to do the work and make the commitments now. A number of presidential candidates - including Democrats John Edwards, Barack Obama and Chris Dodd, and Republican John McCain - have their own proposals with a 2050 endpoint, or support plans with that deadline. "Legislators that make promises to achieve something in the far-off distant future but refuse to take steps now that would allow us to begin the process are really very hypocritical," Bloomberg said. "That's not leadership, that's not what this country needs. It's passing the buck. And unfortunately for Washington today, it's what we call politics as usual." Bloomberg, a billionaire, has repeatedly said he will not enter the presidential race, although he and his aides have continued to fuel speculation with coy remarks, as well as a greater focus on national issues and travel outside New York. Associated Press Writers Sara Kugler in New York, Holly Ramer in Exeter, N.H., Rasha Madkour in Houston and Philip Elliott in Portsmouth, N.H., contributed to this report. (This version CORRECTS SUBS 4th graf, 2nd item to correct job with Vermont GOP) &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IMMIGRATION_CONGRESS?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 4:34 PM EDT Reid extends negotiations on immigration By JULIE HIRSCHFELD DAVIS Raid Captures Illegal Immigrants Shelters Provide Stability for Young Immigrants Reid extends negotiations on immigration Churches provide immigrants sanctuary LA immigrant activists plan June rally Okla. gov. signs immigration reform bill Tighter border first; immigration later Memo on Prosecution of Illegal Immigrants AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Iraqi officials discourage U.S. pullout GOP committee choice criticized White House takes hard line on spending Reid extends negotiations on immigration Poll: Congress, Bush share low approval The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes to give a fitful set of bipartisan talks more time to yield an immigration deal, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Friday he would delay a vote on the issue until next Wednesday. The move postponed - at least for a day - what was shaping up as a partisan clash over immigration after weeks of negotiations between the White House and senators in both parties designed to strike a broad compromise. With that agreement still elusive, Reid is planning to force debate next week on an immigration measure that passed the Senate last year with wide Democratic backing but opposition by a majority of Republicans. GOP senators have promised to block that move, saying they will only accept a new bipartisan compromise. "Some of the senators feel that there's a breakthrough that could take place" in talks over the weekend and early next week, said Reid, D-Nev., adding that he would "reluctantly" postpone the test-vote, which he had set for Tuesday. He has now set the vote for next Wednesday. Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said the move would "give us the maximum opportunity to piece back together the bipartisan agreement that we thought we almost had a week or so ago." Talks are continuing on the possible deal, which would first secure the U.S.-Mexico border and implement an elaborate high-tech identification system for immigrant workers, and only then give millions of illegal immigrants a chance at legal status - after waits as long as 13 more years. Many Democrats and Republicans are wary of such an agreement, which also would limit immigrants' ability to bring their families to the U.S. Democrats fear it will be rejected as too punitive by their liberal base, while Republicans are concerned about alienating conservatives by appearing to treat illegal immigrants too leniently. President Bush plans to use his Saturday weekly radio address to urge Congress to reshape immigration laws. &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DEMOCRATS_LABOR?SITE=WHIZ&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Zanesville - whiznews.com - Southeastern Ohio's Resource May 11, 7:57 PM EDT Democratic candidates woo firefighters N.H. (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidates invoked images of Sept. 11 tragedy and heroism - from a dust-caked crater in New York to bloodied firefighters - as they appealed for the endorsement of a powerful firefighters union. Firefighters emerged from the 2001 attacks as heroes, a fact not lost on the candidates wooing the International Association of Fire Fighters at a two-day meeting of union leaders. "It's hard to find anyone who will stand up and make a speech against firefighters," said Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton. Clinton told firefighters she appreciated their work in New York City, where two plane crashes led to the fiery collapse of the World Trade Center's Twin Towers. A cloud of smoke, dust and ash hovered for days as rescue workers searched for survivors and bodies. "As a senator from New York on 9-11, I know exactly what those sacrifices were," Clinton said. "We lost so many great firefighters that day, people who rushed into that inferno and kept going up those stairs, weighed down with 100 pounds of equipment and trying to make sure if there was anyone to save, they'd get there." Sen. Joe Biden told the firefighters he'd never forget the pictures from that day. "The one thing I remember the most was that grizzled fireman, coming out of the burning debris, hunched over, absolute determination," said Biden, of Delaware. "That one photograph lifted America off its knees. That one image was the most profound image about the determination and the grit of the entire American people that ever was shown during that event." And Sen. Chris Dodd decried the lack of improvement in communications equipment for firefighters and other safety workers since then. "I think its' a failure how, after 5 1/2 years since 9-11, we still have too many states and jurisdictions that can't talk to one another in a time of crisis," the Connecticut senator said. The union, which traditionally supports Democratic bids for the White House, backed Sen. John Kerry in 2004. The 280,000-member union has feuded with Republican presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani, the former New York City mayor, excoriating him for his November 2001 decision to cut back the number of firefighters searching the rubble of Ground Zero for the remains of some 300 fallen comrades. Recently, Giuliani criticized Democrats on national security, suggesting in a New Hampshire speech that the United States could face another major terrorist attack if a Democrat is elected in 2008. Throughout the two-day conference, the Democratic candidates tried to counter that image, talking about issues key to the firefighters. Candidates pledged to support collective bargaining agreements - Clinton said they were "as American as apple pie - and better training and safer pensions. Illinois Sen. Barack Obama said more needs to be done to help firefighters secure better benefits. "Here we are, five years after 9-11 and we still have to demand health care for the men and women who did the worst work on that day," Obama said by telephone. "It's our obligation to take care of them now." And Clinton said not enough has been done to help firefighters who are suffering health problems after working on Sept. 11. "We lost so many brave firefighters that day who weren't even on duty. They came because they had to be there to help," Clinton said. "It seemed to me at that moment, whatever was required to repay the debt our country owed them, I'd want to make sure that happened." &copy 1998-2006 WHIZNEWS.COM All rights reserved EEO Public File Report
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AUTO_SAFETY_CHILDREN?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:49 PM EDT Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes want the government to upgrade safety standards for dangerous "blind zones" in new vehicles, to reduce the chances of children being backed over by large sport utility vehicles and trucks. A Senate committee is to consider legislation Wednesday that would require automakers to expand a vehicle's rear visibility through additional mirrors, sensors, cameras or other technology. "There's nothing more horrifying than a parent standing there helpless and seeing their child backed over," said Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., who helped develop the proposal with Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H. In the past month, Nelson said, three children have been killed in backovers in Florida, and more than 200 children nationwide died similarly last year. Under the legislation, the government also would consider enhancing safety standards for power windows to keep children from strangling when their necks are caught in a window's path. The bill also would require new rules on brake interlock systems, letting the vehicle shift out of park only when the brake pedal is depressed. The bill is expected to clear the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee on Wednesday and go on to the full Senate. The House is expected to consider a similar measure, congressional aides said. Several lawmakers, including Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., have pushed for the improvements following reports of young children being backed over by relatives or neighbors because of large blind spots in their vehicles. Safety advocates estimate that about four children die each week in incidents such as backovers, strangulation from power windows or being left behind in hot vehicles. Under the bill, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration would collect data on these types of injuries and deaths. Many backover deaths are not reported as such to the government because they typically take place in a private driveway. Automakers have opposed the bill the past, contending that the cameras are expensive and unproven in poor weather conditions. They have also said motorists should walk around their vehicles to check for children before backing out. But Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said members would support the compromise because it would require the government to set rules based on data and science and would allow a range of approaches to preventing backovers. "It's a good approach for advancing safety," Bergquist said. Her group represents General Motors Corp., Toyota Motor Corp., Ford Motor Co., DaimlerChrysler AG and others. Nineteen automakers reached a voluntary agreement last year to have brake interlock systems in all new vehicles by 2010. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration: Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers: Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MEXICAN_TRUCKS?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 5:08 PM EDT House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks By JESSE J. HOLLAND AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes House voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to delay a Bush administration plan to allow Mexican trucks full access to U.S. highways. The trucks would have to be declared safe first, the lawmakers said, and Mexico would have to give U.S. truckers the same access south of the border. The House voted 411-3 to approve a three-year Department of Transportation pilot program that would restrict opening the border to 100 carriers based in Mexico. They would be allowed to use a maximum of 1,000 vehicles under the pilot program. The Bush administration wanted to start a pilot program this year that would run for a year before fully opening the border to Mexican trucks. The House bill, however, specifies criteria for the pilot program before it can start, including setting up an independent panel to evaluate the test program and getting certification from the inspector general that safety and inspection requirements have been met. The Department of Transportation says it could be as late as 2008 before Congress's criteria are met, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Lawmakers said their major concern is whether Mexican trucks, often older than U.S. cargo vehicles, and Mexican drivers will be able to meet rigorous U.S. safety standards. "We do not need 90,000-pound unguided missiles on our highways," said Rep. Robin Hayes, R-N.C. American trucking companies have spent years getting their vehicles up to the Transportation Department standards, lawmakers said. Letting Mexican trucks across the border without making them meet those standards is wrong, they said. "We're going to have a major accident somewhere, and people are going to say, 'How did this happen?" said Rep. Bob Filner, D-Calif. Added Rep. Candice Miller, R-Mich: "We need to ensure that this program only takes places after the Mexican companies meet the same conditions that American companies do." Lawmakers also complained that allowing Mexican trucks greater access will cost American truckers their jobs. "You can get a Mexican truck driver to work for a heck of a lot less than a Teamster in the United States, and you can get a Mexican dock worker to work for a heck of a lot less than a longshoreman in the United States and that's what this is ultimately designed to do," said Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore. The Teamsters, the Sierra Club, Public Citizen and the Environmental Law Foundation sued in federal court in April to block the pilot program, citing safety and environmental concerns. "We don't know how safety laws such as hours of service and drug testing would be enforced," Teamster President Jim Hoffa said. "This vote by the House repudiates those questionable attempts to open our borders without adequate safeguards." The Bush administration had planned to run a yearlong pilot program that would allow Mexican trucks beyond the current 20-mile limit from the border but the launch was halted after complaints from Congress. Since 1982, trucks have had to stop within the buffer zone and transfer their loads to U.S. truckers to take them into the country. The legislation would allow Mexican drivers to take their loads from Mexico to any point within the country. Supporters of the plan say letting more Mexican trucks on U.S. highways will save American consumers hundreds of millions of dollars. They include many in the trucking industry, the Bush administration and lawmakers who favor the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Access to all U.S. highways was promised by 2000 under the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement, as was access through Mexico for U.S. carriers. That aspect has been stalled by lawsuits and disagreements between the two countries, though Canadian and U.S. trucks travel freely across the northern border. The bill number is HR 1773. Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EAVESDROPPING?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 5:03 PM EDT White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes top Justice Department official thought President Bush's no-warrant wiretapping program was so questionable that he refused for a time to reauthorize it, leading to a standoff with White House officials at the bedside of the ailing attorney general, a Senate panel was told Tuesday. Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee that he refused to recertify the program because Attorney General John Ashcroft had reservations about its legality just before falling ill with pancreatitis in March 2004. The White House, Comey said, recertified the program without the Justice Department's signoff, allowing it to operate for about three weeks without concurrence on whether it was legal. Comey, Ashcroft, FBI Director Robert Mueller and other Justice Department officials at one point considered resigning, Comey said. "I couldn't stay, if the administration was going to engage in conduct that the Department of Justice had said had no legal basis," Comey told the panel. A day after the March 10, 2004, incident at Ashcroft's hospital bedside, President Bush ordered changes to the program to accommodate the department's concerns. Ashcroft signed the presidential order to recertify the program about three weeks later. The dramatic hospital confrontation involved Comey, the acting attorney general during Ashcroft's absence, and a White House team that included Bush's then-counsel, Alberto Gonzales, and White House Chief of Staff Andy Card, Comey said. Gonzales later succeeded Ashcroft as attorney general. Senior government officials had expressed concerns about whether the National Security Agency, which administered the warrantless eavesdropping program, had the proper oversight in place. Other concerns included whether any president possessed the legal and constitutional authority to authorize the program as it operated at the time. Comey testified Tuesday that when he refused to certify the program, Gonzales and Card headed to Ashcroft's sick bed in the intensive care unit at George Washington University Hospital. When Gonzales appealed to Ashcroft, the ailing attorney general lifted his head off the pillow and in straightforward terms described his views of the program, Comey said. Then he pointed out that Comey, not Ashcroft, held the powers of the attorney general at that moment. Gonzales and Card then left the hospital room, Comey said. "I was angry," Comey told the panel. "I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man who did not have the powers of the attorney general." Comey's testimony revived one of the Bush administration's most bitter internal fights just as Gonzales appeared less under siege about the firings of several U.S. attorneys last year. Bush has stood solidly by his longtime counselor's side; calls for Gonzales' resignation have waned in recent weeks. Asked about Comey's testimony, White House press secretary Tony Snow said he didn't know anything about the conversation at Ashcroft's bedside. But he defended the program. "Because he had an appendectomy, his brain didn't work?" Snow said of Ashcroft. "Jim Comey can talk about whatever reservations he may have had. But the fact is that there were strong protections in there, this program has saved lives and it's vital for national security and furthermore has been reformed in a bipartisan way." Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said he couldn't comment on "internal discussions that may or may have not taken place concerning classified intelligence activities." But he said the program succeeded in helping detect and prevent terrorist attacks and was always subject to rigorous oversight and review. Democrats cited Comey's testimony as evidence of what they say is Gonzales' tendency to put loyalty to Bush ahead of most everything - including Justice's tradition of independence from the politics of the White House. "What happened in that hospital room crystallized Mr. Gonzales' view about the rule of law: that he holds it in minimum low regard," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. Under questioning by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., Comey said he was not threatened by Vice President Dick Cheney or other White House officials who disagreed with him on the legality of the eavesdropping program. Comey recalled that after the bedside incident he started to offer his resignation and was persuaded to wait a few days until Ashcroft could resign with him. "Mr. Ashcroft's chief of staff asked me something that meant a great deal to him, and that is that I not resign until Mr. Ashcroft was well enough to resign with me," Comey said. On March 12 at their daily briefing of the president, Bush asked Comey and Mueller for separate private conversations on Justice's concerns about the eavesdropping program. There, Comey said, Bush agreed to do "the right thing." "We had the president's direction to do what we believed, what the Justice Department believed, was necessary to put this matter on a footing where we could certify to its legality," Comey said of the period after those private meetings. "We did that." Spokesmen for Ashcroft and Mueller refused requests for comment. Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_VONSPRECKENS?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:40 PM EDT Giuliani Apologizes to Iowa Farm Family Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani Apologizes to Iowa Farm Family Giuliani's Clients Could Pose Conflict Giuliani's Firm Lobbied Government Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion Giuliani Backs Army Buildup Nearing 600K Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' Search Lobbying Activities of Giuliani's Firm DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- The VonSpreckens are back on the Giuliani bandwagon. The VonSpreckens, self-described poor farmers from the tiny eastern Iowa community of Olin, became big critics of presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani after his campaign snubbed them because they weren't millionaires. But after learning of the matter in media reports, the former New York City mayor made a hasty visit to Olin to apologize in person. "He is sincere," Deborah VonSprecken said Tuesday. "I looked in his eyes. He is truthful. He is a down to earth, grassroots gentleman." Giuliani aides confirmed the meeting with VonSprecken and her husband, Jerry, saying Giuliani only learned about the misunderstanding over the weekend and wanted to straighten things out. After calling the couple, Deborah VonSprecken said Giuliani asked if he could visit them in Olin. "He was here over two hours yesterday," Deborah VonSprecken said. "He did call and ask if he could speak to us, and then he asked if he could apologize in person. He was sincerely apologetic." The matter began weeks ago when the VonSpreckens got a telephone call from the Giuliani campaign asking if they would host a campaign rally at their farm on May 4. The couple, who had earlier donated to the Giuliani campaign, agreed and began arranging for the rally - clearing brush for a makeshift parking lot, bringing in hay bales for seats and making plans for portable toilets. The Giuliani campaign called again to check on their assets and learned they raised cattle on a modest 80-acre farm. As Deborah VonSprecken put it earlier, "We're just poor farmers." Later, Giuliani staffer Tony Delgado telephoned to say the campaign event was focused on the Republican candidate's opposition to the inheritance tax. Since their estate isn't worth $1 million, it isn't subject to the inheritance tax. "Tony said, 'Sorry, you aren't worth a million dollars and he is campaigning on the death tax right now,'" Deborah VonSprecken said. The event was rescheduled at a Cedar Rapids business. Giuliani's staff said he didn't know about the snub until reading media reports that began with a story in the weekly Anamosa Journal-Eureka. "Basically when the mayor found out what had happened, he called them to apologize and then rearranged his schedule to apologize in person," said a campaign aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Giuliani's visit impressed the couple enough that the VonSpreckens agreed to chair the Jones County campaign for Giuliani. Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CANDIDATES_FINANCES?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:22 PM EDT Clinton, Others Delay Financial Filings Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday joined three other presidential candidates in seeking to delay the filing of personal financial disclosure reports. The reports identify the assets, liabilities and sources of income of the candidates and their spouses. Other candidates filed their reports with the Federal Election Commission by Tuesday's deadline. The FEC will make them public within days. Clinton and former President Clinton are millionaires, according to past disclosure forms. In 2005, the former president made nearly $7.5 million in speaking fees. The couple had a blind trust valued at between $5 million and $25 million and a Citibank account of similar size. The others who received 45-day extensions are Republicans - former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, Sen. John McCain of Arizona and former Virginia Gov. Jim Gilmore. McCain had filed a disclosure report earlier this year, but the Federal Election Commission and the Office of Government Ethics concluded that he needed to file anew. McCain requested the extension, in part, because the ethics office said he needed to disclose holdings in a blind trust in the name of McCain's wife, Cindy. The trust has assets between $500,000 and $1 million. The presidential forms differ from the Senate disclosure forms and require more detailed reporting. For instance, Clinton would have to report all the former president's speeches up to the date of filing. Other candidates filed by Tuesday's deadline but did not make their reports public. The FEC makes the disclosures publicly available after they have been reviewed by its office of general counsel, a process that can take several days. Another common practice in presidential campaigns is the release of income tax returns. But so far this year, only Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., has released his 2006 tax returns. He and his wife Michelle reported total income of $991,000, with more than half from Obama's two books - a memoir and his political treatise, "The Audacity of Hope." Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., announced Tuesday that he, too, would release his tax returns. While the disclosure reports reveal the identity of income sources and of the assets held by candidates and their spouses, they only provide a range of the amount of the holding. That makes it difficult to determine a candidate's net worth. In an interview with The Associated Press on Tuesday, Democrat John Edwards declined to reveal the amount of money he made working for Fortress Investment Group, a hedge fund that Edwards said he joined to better understand the relationship between wealth and poverty. Edwards said his financial disclosure would show how much he earned, but only Edwards' tax return would specify the exact amount. The disclosure would only list his income as a range - $250,000-$500,000 or $500,000-$1 million, for instance. Republican Rudy Giuliani released his tax returns while he was mayor of New York. Since then, however, he has been involved in a series of private consulting ventures. Romney, who founded the investment company Bain Capital, has total assets estimated at between $190 million and $250 million. "Presidential candidates ought to be prepared to have their finances treated as an open book," said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a group that advocates for tighter ethics rules in government. "It is the highest office in the land and people should be prepared to let citizens see the full track record of information about their financial arrangements." Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FLAGS_US_TROOPS?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:05 PM EDT House: States Could Honor Fallen Troops AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes could order federal facilities to lower their flags to honor fallen military troops under legislation passed by the House Tuesday. Rep. Bart Stupak, a Democrat whose northern Michigan district has lost close to 20 people in fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan, said he sponsored the bill after unsuccessfully trying to persuade President Bush to issue an executive order on the issue. The bill passed 408-4 and now goes to the Senate, where Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Sen. Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., have introduced parallel legislation. The measure would amend federal law with regard to the flying of the national flag at half-staff to allow a governor to require that federal facilities in the state lower their flags when a member of the armed forces from that state dies while on active duty. The mayor of the District of Columbia would have the same authority with respect to military personnel from the District. The bill is named for Army Specialist Joseph P. Micks, a 22-year-old from Rapid River in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan who was killed in Iraq last year. Stupak said there were several instances in his state of federal facilities ignoring the governor's request to lower flags, citing another case in his district where a Veterans Affairs hospital did not fly its flag at half-staff. "This inconsistent, patchwork display of respect is particularly hurtful to rural communities where the funeral processions of fallen troops often travel through multiple communities, some with lowered flags, others without," Stupak said. He said he wrote the president a year ago urging him to issue an executive order requiring that federal facilities lower their flags upon the request of the governor. "I don't know their reasons" for not responding, he said, but noted that the sight of a flag flying at half-staff is "a reminder of the war and the cost we pay." More than 3,700 members of the U.S. military have died as a result of the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Stupak said he is also backing a bill that would require the military to fly the remains of those killed while on active duty to the closest civilian or military airport. He said people in rural districts such as his own sometimes have to drive 300 or 400 miles to a major airport to follow the hearse home. The bill is H.R. 692 (This version CORRECTS SUBS graf 3 to correct spelling of Debbie Stabenow.) Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOLDIER_KILLED_ROMNEY?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:54 PM EDT Former Romney Aide Killed in Iraq Photos of Mitt Romney Former Romney Aide Killed in Iraq Romney Says Voters Will Accept a Mormon Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Critics Fault Romney's Abortion Record Romney Assails Sharpton's Mormon Comment Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- The war in Iraq hit home for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney as a former aide who also was a son of a war critic was killed while serving in Iraq. Army First Lt. Andrew J. Bacevich, 27, served as a legislative aide to then-Gov. Mitt Romney in 2004, handling all bills sent to the governor's desk for review and signature. Romney said Tuesday that he talked with Bacevich about his decision to enlist before he left the Massachusetts Statehouse. "I got to know Andrew as a legislative aide in my office, and before he left we met and talked about his plans," Romney said in a statement. "He was driven by a desire to serve, first as part of our team and then as a member of the military. His loss is a deep personal loss for me and for all of those who knew him." Bacevich was killed Sunday when an improvised explosive device exploded while he was on a combat patrol in Salah Ad Din Province, Iraq, according to the Defense Department. The soldier had been assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division at Fort Hood, Texas. Bacevich was a 2003 graduate of Boston University. His father, Andrew, is a Boston University professor, a West Point graduate and veteran of the Vietnam and Persian Gulf wars. The elder Bacevich has criticized President Bush's strategy and said the United States is mired in a war it cannot win through military might alone. In a statement, Bacevich's family remembered him as a man of humor and handsome looks who had overcome the challenges childhood asthma to be an Army officer and a marathon runner. "Andy was a born-leader who felt called to serve his country," the statement said. "Our family will miss him dearly and forever." Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EDWARDS_HEDGE_FUND?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 5:13 PM EDT Edwards Downplays Time at Hedge Fund Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John Edwards Edwards Downplays Time at Hedge Fund Obama Proposes Changes in Student Loans Edwards Offers Students Anti-War Advice John Edwards' Big Ideas Costly Edwards Discusses Time at Hedge Fund DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards argued on Tuesday that his work for a hedge fund shouldn't overshadow his efforts on poverty and other issues after the 2004 campaign. "If you look at what I've done since the last election, it is true that I did consulting work for a hedge fund, part time," Edwards told The Associated Press in a brief interview. "It's also true that I started a poverty center at the University of North Carolina, that I led minimum wage initiatives in six states - all successful - that I started a college-for-everyone program for poor communities in eastern North Carolina, that I helped organize thousands of workers into unions, that I did humanitarian work in Africa." Edwards, the Democrats' 2004 vice presidential nominee, again declined to say how much money he was paid for his yearlong position with the New York-based Fortress Investment Group. "It will come out when the disclosure comes out," Edwards said, referring to financial reports due Tuesday. Last week, in an interview with the AP, Edwards said he worked for a hedge fund between presidential campaigns to learn about financial markets and their relationship to poverty - and to make money too. Fortress reported assets of about $35.1 billion as of Dec. 31, 2006. Hedge funds, now numbering more than 9,000 in the U.S. with assets estimated to exceed $1 trillion, traditionally cater to the rich, as well as pension funds and university endowments, but are increasingly luring less wealthy investors. Edwards said his work at Fortress should be put into context with the anti-poverty work he's undertaken since he and John Kerry made a failed run for the White House. "If you look at all the things I've done since the last election, it's pretty clear where my commitment is," he said. Edwards was in Iowa to announce the support of 1,500 women caucus-goers. In the interview, Edwards said the experience he gained in the 2004 Iowa caucuses has taught him the need for a grass-roots organization in the state. "I can tell you I've been through this," he said. "I'm experienced and seasoned at what it takes to organize in Iowa." Although his main Democratic rivals, Illinois Sen. Barack Obama and New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, draw larger crowds, Edwards said is focused more on organizing. Such work paid off in a surprising second-place showing in Iowa in 2004 and will pay dividends again, he said. Only about 100,000 Democratic activists will likely show up to decide the caucuses on Jan. 14, and most will have met at least one of the candidates. Edwards said the comfort level he's built with activists over the years is a distinct advantage. "I think the importance of it is that people in Iowa - caucus-goers - feel like they know me, they know Elizabeth," said Edwards. "That comfort level makes it easier for them to hear what you want to do as president. It doesn't yet mean they are for you, but it means they are more receptive to what you have to say." Tuesday's visit was Edwards' 23rd to Iowa since the 2004 election. Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/REPUBLICANS_DEBATE?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:38 PM EDT Iraq, Abortion Loom Over Primary Debate AP Photo/Mary Ann Chastain Take the October '06 Opinion Poll Iraq, Abortion Loom Over Primary Debate Giuliani Emerging As Favorite of Gays GOP Lawmakers: Loyalty to Bush May Hurt GOP Contenders Embrace Reagan Legacy Quotes From Republican Debate S.C. (AP) -- Iraq and abortion loom large as 10 Republican presidential candidates debate a second time Tuesday. On one issue - the four-year-old war - the GOP field is largely in sync, backing President Bush in opposing Democratic calls for beginning a withdrawal of U.S. forces. But the candidates are split on social issues, most notably a women's right to terminate a pregnancy. Less than two weeks ago, top-tier candidates Rudy Giuliani, John McCain and Mitt Romney shared a stage in Simi Valley, Calif., with seven underdogs competing for the GOP nomination in the first Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. Iraq and social issues dominated the discourse that night, a preview of what was sure to await the candidates in Columbia, S.C., where conservative Christians make up a large chunk of the state's GOP primary voters. Since the California event, Giuliani has reaffirmed his support for abortion rights after his convoluted debate answer on whether he would welcome the Supreme Court overturning its landmark decision legalizing abortion. He personally opposes the procedure. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor; McCain, a four-term Arizona senator, and Romney, the ex-governor of Massachusetts, were facing Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas, former Govs. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin and Jim Gilmore of Virginia. Reps. Ron Paul of Texas, Duncan Hunter of California and Tom Tancredo of Colorado also were participating. Paul, the Libertarian presidential nominee in 1988, voted against giving Bush the authority to wage war in Iraq in 2002. Hours before the debate, candidates responded to the death of the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the television evangelist who founded the Moral Majority and was a force in conservative politics. McCain, who once called Falwell and his ilk "agents of intolerance," praised him in a statement as "a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country." Romney described Falwell as "an American who built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith." Giuliani told reporters after a tour of the debate site: "He was a man who set a direction. He is someone who is not afraid to speak his mind." The University of South Carolina's Koger Center for the Arts was the setting for the debate, sponsored by the South Carolina Republican Party and Fox News Channel. The channel's Brit Hume was moderating. Underscoring the dominant issues, Americans Against Escalation in Iraq and the South Carolina Young Democrats sponsored a 20-foot mobile billboard to circle the debate site, bearing the phrases: "Republicans, Mission Accomplished?" and "McCain, Mission Accomplished?" And, activists affiliated with Planned Parenthood also were holding an abortion-rights rally outside the hall. Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=NCWIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Online partner of the Video of the Day The Day in Photos Where The Towers Stood May 15, 4:44 PM EDT Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings By LARA JAKES JORDAN Justice Dept. No. 2 Official Resigns Gonzales: A Career Timeline The Fired Prosecutors: A Primer List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings Deputy Attorney General to Resign Post Gonzales Deflects Democrats' Criticism Excerpts From Gonzales Hearing General Alberto Gonzales said Tuesday he relied on his resigning deputy more than any other aide to decide which U.S. attorneys should be fired last year. His comments came a less than a day after Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty announced he would resign at the end of the summer - a decision that people familiar with the plans said was hastened by the controversy over the purge of eight prosecutors. "You have to remember, at the end of the day, the recommendations reflected the views of the deputy attorney general. He signed off on the names," Gonzales told reporters at a National Press Club forum in Washington. "And he would know better than anyone else, anyone in this room, anyone - again, the deputy attorney general would know best about the qualifications and the experiences of the United States attorneys community, and he signed off on the names." McNulty, reached in San Antonio after Gonzales' remarks, declined to comment. McNulty has acknowledged approving the list of prosecutors who were ordered to leave last October, a few weeks before the firings were made official. But documents released by the Justice Department show he was not closely involved in picking all the U.S. attorneys who were put on the list - a job mostly driven by two Gonzales staffers with little prosecutorial experience. Gonzales ultimately signed off on the list in a process that Congress is investigating to see whether the firings were politically motivated. Gonzales also called McNulty's pending departure "a loss. ... I'm really going to miss him." But his comments about McNulty's role in the prosecutors' purge seemed designed to distance himself from the deputy who announced his resignation just 18 hours earlier, following a year and a half on the job. The attorney general, who has resisted calls for his own resignation, said he relied on McNulty's views more than another other adviser. Gonzales said he was reassured by his deputy as recently as March that the firings all were justified. "The one person I would care about would be the views of the deputy attorney general, because the deputy attorney general is the direct supervisor of the United States attorneys," Gonzales said. President Bush has steadfastly supported Gonzales, his close friend and adviser, saying the firings were appropriate. He has conceded, however, that the dismissals were poorly handled and Gonzales and the Justice Department did not do a good job in explaining to Congress how and why they were carried out. Republicans taking part in a House Judiciary Committee hearing last week defended Gonzales, saying that Democrats should back away in their continuing investigation of the firings. That contrasted sharply with calls from some Senate Republicans for Gonzales' resignation earlier this year. Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has stopped short of calling on Gonzales to resign. But he made clear Tuesday that he believes the Justice Department suffers with Gonzales leading it. "I think the resignation of Mr. McNulty is another significant step and evidence that a department really cannot function with the continued leadership or lack of leadership of Attorney General Gonzales," Specter said. He indicated that Justice to function properly until Congress wraps up its investigations of the firings. "If we had a new attorney general and concluded this investigation, made our findings public, it would be very important," Specter said. White House spokesman Tony Snow said McNulty's departure would not impact Gonzales' ability to move forward. "Paul also served this country very well and we certainly thank him for his service, but it certainly does not change the way in which we view the attorney general," Snow said. "Instead what we do is we thank Paul for his service." Use of this Web site is subject to certain We may collect personal information on this site, as described in our  2006 Winston-Salem Journal . The Winston-Salem Journal is a
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CANDIDATES_FINANCES?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 4:22 PM EDT Clinton, Others Delay Financial Filings Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday joined three other presidential candidates in seeking to delay the filing of personal financial disclosure reports. The reports identify the assets, liabilities and sources of income of the candidates and their spouses. Other candidates filed their reports with the Federal Election Commission by Tuesday's deadline. The FEC will make them public within days. Clinton and former President Clinton are millionaires, according to past disclosure forms. In 2005, the former president made nearly $7.5 million in speaking fees. The couple had a blind trust valued at between $5 million and $25 million and a Citibank account of similar size. The others who received 45-day extensions are Republicans - former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, Sen. John McCain of Arizona and former Virginia Gov. Jim Gilmore. McCain had filed a disclosure report earlier this year, but the Federal Election Commission and the Office of Government Ethics concluded that he needed to file anew. McCain requested the extension, in part, because the ethics office said he needed to disclose holdings in a blind trust in the name of McCain's wife, Cindy. The trust has assets between $500,000 and $1 million. The presidential forms differ from the Senate disclosure forms and require more detailed reporting. For instance, Clinton would have to report all the former president's speeches up to the date of filing. Other candidates filed by Tuesday's deadline but did not make their reports public. The FEC makes the disclosures publicly available after they have been reviewed by its office of general counsel, a process that can take several days. Another common practice in presidential campaigns is the release of income tax returns. But so far this year, only Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., has released his 2006 tax returns. He and his wife Michelle reported total income of $991,000, with more than half from Obama's two books - a memoir and his political treatise, "The Audacity of Hope." Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., announced Tuesday that he, too, would release his tax returns. While the disclosure reports reveal the identity of income sources and of the assets held by candidates and their spouses, they only provide a range of the amount of the holding. That makes it difficult to determine a candidate's net worth. In an interview with The Associated Press on Tuesday, Democrat John Edwards declined to reveal the amount of money he made working for Fortress Investment Group, a hedge fund that Edwards said he joined to better understand the relationship between wealth and poverty. Edwards said his financial disclosure would show how much he earned, but only Edwards' tax return would specify the exact amount. The disclosure would only list his income as a range - $250,000-$500,000 or $500,000-$1 million, for instance. Republican Rudy Giuliani released his tax returns while he was mayor of New York. Since then, however, he has been involved in a series of private consulting ventures. Romney, who founded the investment company Bain Capital, has total assets estimated at between $190 million and $250 million. "Presidential candidates ought to be prepared to have their finances treated as an open book," said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a group that advocates for tighter ethics rules in government. "It is the highest office in the land and people should be prepared to let citizens see the full track record of information about their financial arrangements."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AUTO_SAFETY_CHILDREN?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 4:49 PM EDT Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes want the government to upgrade safety standards for dangerous "blind zones" in new vehicles, to reduce the chances of children being backed over by large sport utility vehicles and trucks. A Senate committee is to consider legislation Wednesday that would require automakers to expand a vehicle's rear visibility through additional mirrors, sensors, cameras or other technology. "There's nothing more horrifying than a parent standing there helpless and seeing their child backed over," said Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., who helped develop the proposal with Sen. John Sununu, R-N.H. In the past month, Nelson said, three children have been killed in backovers in Florida, and more than 200 children nationwide died similarly last year. Under the legislation, the government also would consider enhancing safety standards for power windows to keep children from strangling when their necks are caught in a window's path. The bill also would require new rules on brake interlock systems, letting the vehicle shift out of park only when the brake pedal is depressed. The bill is expected to clear the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee on Wednesday and go on to the full Senate. The House is expected to consider a similar measure, congressional aides said. Several lawmakers, including Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., have pushed for the improvements following reports of young children being backed over by relatives or neighbors because of large blind spots in their vehicles. Safety advocates estimate that about four children die each week in incidents such as backovers, strangulation from power windows or being left behind in hot vehicles. Under the bill, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration would collect data on these types of injuries and deaths. Many backover deaths are not reported as such to the government because they typically take place in a private driveway. Automakers have opposed the bill the past, contending that the cameras are expensive and unproven in poor weather conditions. They have also said motorists should walk around their vehicles to check for children before backing out. But Gloria Bergquist, a spokeswoman for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, said members would support the compromise because it would require the government to set rules based on data and science and would allow a range of approaches to preventing backovers. "It's a good approach for advancing safety," Bergquist said. Her group represents General Motors Corp., Toyota Motor Corp., Ford Motor Co., DaimlerChrysler AG and others. Nineteen automakers reached a voluntary agreement last year to have brake interlock systems in all new vehicles by 2010. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration: Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GIULIANI_VONSPRECKENS?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 4:40 PM EDT Giuliani Apologizes to Iowa Farm Family Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Giuliani Apologizes to Iowa Farm Family Giuliani's Clients Could Pose Conflict Giuliani's Firm Lobbied Government Giuliani Defends Stance on Abortion Giuliani Backs Army Buildup Nearing 600K Latest Photos of Rudy Giuliani Video: Excerpts from the film 'Giuliani Time' Search Lobbying Activities of Giuliani's Firm DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- The VonSpreckens are back on the Giuliani bandwagon. The VonSpreckens, self-described poor farmers from the tiny eastern Iowa community of Olin, became big critics of presidential candidate Rudy Giuliani after his campaign snubbed them because they weren't millionaires. But after learning of the matter in media reports, the former New York City mayor made a hasty visit to Olin to apologize in person. "He is sincere," Deborah VonSprecken said Tuesday. "I looked in his eyes. He is truthful. He is a down to earth, grassroots gentleman." Giuliani aides confirmed the meeting with VonSprecken and her husband, Jerry, saying Giuliani only learned about the misunderstanding over the weekend and wanted to straighten things out. After calling the couple, Deborah VonSprecken said Giuliani asked if he could visit them in Olin. "He was here over two hours yesterday," Deborah VonSprecken said. "He did call and ask if he could speak to us, and then he asked if he could apologize in person. He was sincerely apologetic." The matter began weeks ago when the VonSpreckens got a telephone call from the Giuliani campaign asking if they would host a campaign rally at their farm on May 4. The couple, who had earlier donated to the Giuliani campaign, agreed and began arranging for the rally - clearing brush for a makeshift parking lot, bringing in hay bales for seats and making plans for portable toilets. The Giuliani campaign called again to check on their assets and learned they raised cattle on a modest 80-acre farm. As Deborah VonSprecken put it earlier, "We're just poor farmers." Later, Giuliani staffer Tony Delgado telephoned to say the campaign event was focused on the Republican candidate's opposition to the inheritance tax. Since their estate isn't worth $1 million, it isn't subject to the inheritance tax. "Tony said, 'Sorry, you aren't worth a million dollars and he is campaigning on the death tax right now,'" Deborah VonSprecken said. The event was rescheduled at a Cedar Rapids business. Giuliani's staff said he didn't know about the snub until reading media reports that began with a story in the weekly Anamosa Journal-Eureka. "Basically when the mayor found out what had happened, he called them to apologize and then rearranged his schedule to apologize in person," said a campaign aide, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Giuliani's visit impressed the couple enough that the VonSpreckens agreed to chair the Jones County campaign for Giuliani.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 5:30 PM EDT Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings By LARA JAKES JORDAN Justice Dept. No. 2 Official Resigns Gonzales: A Career Timeline The Fired Prosecutors: A Primer List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings Deputy Attorney General to Resign Post Gonzales Deflects Democrats' Criticism Excerpts From Gonzales Hearing General Alberto Gonzales said Tuesday he relied on his resigning deputy more than any other aide to decide which U.S. attorneys should be fired last year. His comments came a less than a day after Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty announced he would resign at the end of the summer - a decision that people familiar with the plans said was hastened by the controversy over the purge of eight prosecutors. "You have to remember, at the end of the day, the recommendations reflected the views of the deputy attorney general. He signed off on the names," Gonzales told reporters at a National Press Club forum in Washington. "And he would know better than anyone else, anyone in this room, anyone - again, the deputy attorney general would know best about the qualifications and the experiences of the United States attorneys community, and he signed off on the names." McNulty, reached in San Antonio after Gonzales' remarks, declined to comment. McNulty has acknowledged approving the list of prosecutors who were ordered to leave last October, a few weeks before the firings were made official. But documents released by the Justice Department show he was not closely involved in picking all the U.S. attorneys who were put on the list - a job mostly driven by two Gonzales staffers with little prosecutorial experience. Gonzales ultimately signed off on the list in a process that Congress is investigating to see whether the firings were politically motivated. Gonzales also called McNulty's pending departure "a loss. ... I'm really going to miss him." But his comments about McNulty's role in the prosecutors' purge seemed designed to distance himself from the deputy who announced his resignation just 18 hours earlier, following a year and a half on the job. The attorney general, who has resisted calls for his own resignation, said he relied on McNulty's views more than another other adviser. Gonzales said he was reassured by his deputy as recently as March that the firings all were justified. "The one person I would care about would be the views of the deputy attorney general, because the deputy attorney general is the direct supervisor of the United States attorneys," Gonzales said. President Bush has steadfastly supported Gonzales, his close friend and adviser, saying the firings were appropriate. He has conceded, however, that the dismissals were poorly handled and Gonzales and the Justice Department did not do a good job in explaining to Congress how and why they were carried out. Republicans taking part in a House Judiciary Committee hearing last week defended Gonzales, saying that Democrats should back away in their continuing investigation of the firings. That contrasted sharply with calls from some Senate Republicans for Gonzales' resignation earlier this year. Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has stopped short of calling on Gonzales to resign. But he made clear Tuesday that he believes the Justice Department suffers with Gonzales leading it. "I think the resignation of Mr. McNulty is another significant step and evidence that a department really cannot function with the continued leadership or lack of leadership of Attorney General Gonzales," Specter said. He indicated that Justice to function properly until Congress wraps up its investigations of the firings. "If we had a new attorney general and concluded this investigation, made our findings public, it would be very important," Specter said. White House spokesman Tony Snow said McNulty's departure would not impact Gonzales' ability to move forward. "Paul also served this country very well and we certainly thank him for his service, but it certainly does not change the way in which we view the attorney general," Snow said. "Instead what we do is we thank Paul for his service."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/REPUBLICANS_DEBATE?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 4:38 PM EDT Iraq, Abortion Loom Over Primary Debate AP Photo/Mary Ann Chastain Take the October '06 Opinion Poll Iraq, Abortion Loom Over Primary Debate Giuliani Emerging As Favorite of Gays GOP Lawmakers: Loyalty to Bush May Hurt GOP Contenders Embrace Reagan Legacy Quotes From Republican Debate S.C. (AP) -- Iraq and abortion loom large as 10 Republican presidential candidates debate a second time Tuesday. On one issue - the four-year-old war - the GOP field is largely in sync, backing President Bush in opposing Democratic calls for beginning a withdrawal of U.S. forces. But the candidates are split on social issues, most notably a women's right to terminate a pregnancy. Less than two weeks ago, top-tier candidates Rudy Giuliani, John McCain and Mitt Romney shared a stage in Simi Valley, Calif., with seven underdogs competing for the GOP nomination in the first Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. Iraq and social issues dominated the discourse that night, a preview of what was sure to await the candidates in Columbia, S.C., where conservative Christians make up a large chunk of the state's GOP primary voters. Since the California event, Giuliani has reaffirmed his support for abortion rights after his convoluted debate answer on whether he would welcome the Supreme Court overturning its landmark decision legalizing abortion. He personally opposes the procedure. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor; McCain, a four-term Arizona senator, and Romney, the ex-governor of Massachusetts, were facing Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas, former Govs. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin and Jim Gilmore of Virginia. Reps. Ron Paul of Texas, Duncan Hunter of California and Tom Tancredo of Colorado also were participating. Paul, the Libertarian presidential nominee in 1988, voted against giving Bush the authority to wage war in Iraq in 2002. Hours before the debate, candidates responded to the death of the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the television evangelist who founded the Moral Majority and was a force in conservative politics. McCain, who once called Falwell and his ilk "agents of intolerance," praised him in a statement as "a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country." Romney described Falwell as "an American who built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith." Giuliani told reporters after a tour of the debate site: "He was a man who set a direction. He is someone who is not afraid to speak his mind." The University of South Carolina's Koger Center for the Arts was the setting for the debate, sponsored by the South Carolina Republican Party and Fox News Channel. The channel's Brit Hume was moderating. Underscoring the dominant issues, Americans Against Escalation in Iraq and the South Carolina Young Democrats sponsored a 20-foot mobile billboard to circle the debate site, bearing the phrases: "Republicans, Mission Accomplished?" and "McCain, Mission Accomplished?" And, activists affiliated with Planned Parenthood also were holding an abortion-rights rally outside the hall.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MEXICAN_TRUCKS?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 5:08 PM EDT House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks By JESSE J. HOLLAND AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes House voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to delay a Bush administration plan to allow Mexican trucks full access to U.S. highways. The trucks would have to be declared safe first, the lawmakers said, and Mexico would have to give U.S. truckers the same access south of the border. The House voted 411-3 to approve a three-year Department of Transportation pilot program that would restrict opening the border to 100 carriers based in Mexico. They would be allowed to use a maximum of 1,000 vehicles under the pilot program. The Bush administration wanted to start a pilot program this year that would run for a year before fully opening the border to Mexican trucks. The House bill, however, specifies criteria for the pilot program before it can start, including setting up an independent panel to evaluate the test program and getting certification from the inspector general that safety and inspection requirements have been met. The Department of Transportation says it could be as late as 2008 before Congress's criteria are met, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Lawmakers said their major concern is whether Mexican trucks, often older than U.S. cargo vehicles, and Mexican drivers will be able to meet rigorous U.S. safety standards. "We do not need 90,000-pound unguided missiles on our highways," said Rep. Robin Hayes, R-N.C. American trucking companies have spent years getting their vehicles up to the Transportation Department standards, lawmakers said. Letting Mexican trucks across the border without making them meet those standards is wrong, they said. "We're going to have a major accident somewhere, and people are going to say, 'How did this happen?" said Rep. Bob Filner, D-Calif. Added Rep. Candice Miller, R-Mich: "We need to ensure that this program only takes places after the Mexican companies meet the same conditions that American companies do." Lawmakers also complained that allowing Mexican trucks greater access will cost American truckers their jobs. "You can get a Mexican truck driver to work for a heck of a lot less than a Teamster in the United States, and you can get a Mexican dock worker to work for a heck of a lot less than a longshoreman in the United States and that's what this is ultimately designed to do," said Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore. The Teamsters, the Sierra Club, Public Citizen and the Environmental Law Foundation sued in federal court in April to block the pilot program, citing safety and environmental concerns. "We don't know how safety laws such as hours of service and drug testing would be enforced," Teamster President Jim Hoffa said. "This vote by the House repudiates those questionable attempts to open our borders without adequate safeguards." The Bush administration had planned to run a yearlong pilot program that would allow Mexican trucks beyond the current 20-mile limit from the border but the launch was halted after complaints from Congress. Since 1982, trucks have had to stop within the buffer zone and transfer their loads to U.S. truckers to take them into the country. The legislation would allow Mexican drivers to take their loads from Mexico to any point within the country. Supporters of the plan say letting more Mexican trucks on U.S. highways will save American consumers hundreds of millions of dollars. They include many in the trucking industry, the Bush administration and lawmakers who favor the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Access to all U.S. highways was promised by 2000 under the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement, as was access through Mexico for U.S. carriers. That aspect has been stalled by lawsuits and disagreements between the two countries, though Canadian and U.S. trucks travel freely across the northern border. The bill number is HR 1773.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EAVESDROPPING?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 5:03 PM EDT White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes top Justice Department official thought President Bush's no-warrant wiretapping program was so questionable that he refused for a time to reauthorize it, leading to a standoff with White House officials at the bedside of the ailing attorney general, a Senate panel was told Tuesday. Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee that he refused to recertify the program because Attorney General John Ashcroft had reservations about its legality just before falling ill with pancreatitis in March 2004. The White House, Comey said, recertified the program without the Justice Department's signoff, allowing it to operate for about three weeks without concurrence on whether it was legal. Comey, Ashcroft, FBI Director Robert Mueller and other Justice Department officials at one point considered resigning, Comey said. "I couldn't stay, if the administration was going to engage in conduct that the Department of Justice had said had no legal basis," Comey told the panel. A day after the March 10, 2004, incident at Ashcroft's hospital bedside, President Bush ordered changes to the program to accommodate the department's concerns. Ashcroft signed the presidential order to recertify the program about three weeks later. The dramatic hospital confrontation involved Comey, the acting attorney general during Ashcroft's absence, and a White House team that included Bush's then-counsel, Alberto Gonzales, and White House Chief of Staff Andy Card, Comey said. Gonzales later succeeded Ashcroft as attorney general. Senior government officials had expressed concerns about whether the National Security Agency, which administered the warrantless eavesdropping program, had the proper oversight in place. Other concerns included whether any president possessed the legal and constitutional authority to authorize the program as it operated at the time. Comey testified Tuesday that when he refused to certify the program, Gonzales and Card headed to Ashcroft's sick bed in the intensive care unit at George Washington University Hospital. When Gonzales appealed to Ashcroft, the ailing attorney general lifted his head off the pillow and in straightforward terms described his views of the program, Comey said. Then he pointed out that Comey, not Ashcroft, held the powers of the attorney general at that moment. Gonzales and Card then left the hospital room, Comey said. "I was angry," Comey told the panel. "I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man who did not have the powers of the attorney general." Comey's testimony revived one of the Bush administration's most bitter internal fights just as Gonzales appeared less under siege about the firings of several U.S. attorneys last year. Bush has stood solidly by his longtime counselor's side; calls for Gonzales' resignation have waned in recent weeks. Asked about Comey's testimony, White House press secretary Tony Snow said he didn't know anything about the conversation at Ashcroft's bedside. But he defended the program. "Because he had an appendectomy, his brain didn't work?" Snow said of Ashcroft. "Jim Comey can talk about whatever reservations he may have had. But the fact is that there were strong protections in there, this program has saved lives and it's vital for national security and furthermore has been reformed in a bipartisan way." Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said he couldn't comment on "internal discussions that may or may have not taken place concerning classified intelligence activities." But he said the program succeeded in helping detect and prevent terrorist attacks and was always subject to rigorous oversight and review. Democrats cited Comey's testimony as evidence of what they say is Gonzales' tendency to put loyalty to Bush ahead of most everything - including Justice's tradition of independence from the politics of the White House. "What happened in that hospital room crystallized Mr. Gonzales' view about the rule of law: that he holds it in minimum low regard," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. Under questioning by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., Comey said he was not threatened by Vice President Dick Cheney or other White House officials who disagreed with him on the legality of the eavesdropping program. Comey recalled that after the bedside incident he started to offer his resignation and was persuaded to wait a few days until Ashcroft could resign with him. "Mr. Ashcroft's chief of staff asked me something that meant a great deal to him, and that is that I not resign until Mr. Ashcroft was well enough to resign with me," Comey said. On March 12 at their daily briefing of the president, Bush asked Comey and Mueller for separate private conversations on Justice's concerns about the eavesdropping program. There, Comey said, Bush agreed to do "the right thing." "We had the president's direction to do what we believed, what the Justice Department believed, was necessary to put this matter on a footing where we could certify to its legality," Comey said of the period after those private meetings. "We did that." Spokesmen for Ashcroft and Mueller refused requests for comment.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 5:22 PM EDT Clinton, Obama Back Iraq Fund Cutoff The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Clinton, Obama Back Iraq Fund Cutoff U.S. Seeks Gains in Shiite Militia Rifts U.S. Detains 11 Iraqis in Search for GIs No Photos Allowed After Iraqi Blasts Key Developments in Iraq on Tuesday Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton separately declared their support Tuesday for a March 31, 2008 cutoff in funds for the Iraq war, two Democratic presidential front-runners abruptly shifting positions on an issue at the heart of the 2008 race. The twin announcements came on the eve of a largely symbolic Senate vote on legislation to cut off funds for the war, and as a third presidential contender, Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., said in a campaign commercial it was unfortunate that his White House rivals "will not join me" in supporting the measure. In a written statement issued in early afternoon, Obama said that after 1,518 days, "the Iraq war rages on, with no sign of a resolution." The Illinois senator said he would vote for a cutoff in war funding as well as a second bill setting standards for the Iraqi government "not because I believe either is the best answer, but because I want to send a strong statement to the Iraqi government, the president and my Republican colleagues that it's long past time to change course." A few hours later, a spokesman for Clinton said she, too, would support the measure. Clinton will cast her votes "to send the president a clear message that it is time to change course, redeploy our troops out of Iraq, and end this war as soon as possible," said Philippe Reines, a spokesman in her Senate office. The flurry of activity served as prelude to a schedule vote Wednesday on legislation by Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., to require President Bush to begin the "safe, phased withdrawal of U.S. forces" within 120 days. After March 31, 2008, all funds would be cut off for the deployment of troops in Iraq, with three exceptions: "targeted operations" against al-Qaida and other terrorists; security of U.S. facilities and personnel; training and equipping of Iraqi security forces. Both Democratic presidential front-runners had previously declined to support proposals ordering the withdrawal of U.S. troops on a mandatory timeline. Clinton, in particular, has spoken out repeatedly against the idea, and drew boos from an audience in June 2006 after criticizing President Bush, then adding, "Nor do I think it is smart strategy to set a date certain. I do not agree that that is in the best interest of our troops or our country." Nearly a year ago, both she and Obama opposed legislation in the Senate that would have required the withdrawal of all U.S. combat troops from Iraq by July 1, 2007. Feingold has conceded his measure stands virtually no chance of prevailing, and it will come to the floor under a procedure that requires 60 votes to advance. The proposal is one of several expected to come to a vote on Wednesday, as Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada struggles toward a goal of sending legislation to the White House by the end of next week to continue U.S. military operations through Sept. 30. The House last week passed legislation funding the war on two separate 60-day installments, and the Senate must take the next step of passing its own measure. But given the political forces at work, that legislation will be a placeholder, its only purpose to trigger three-way negotiations involving the House, Senate and Bush administration on a final compromise. As a result, officials said during the day that Reid and Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell had discussed jointly advancing a bill so barebones that it did little more than express support for the troops already deployed to the war zone. In contrast to the complex Senate maneuvering, the competition among the Democratic presidential contenders was simplicity itself - all rivals vying for support among anti-war activists, yet mindful of the need to remain consistent and project the strength that voters seek in a commander in chief.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOLDIER_KILLED_ROMNEY?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 4:54 PM EDT Former Romney Aide Killed in Iraq Photos of Mitt Romney Former Romney Aide Killed in Iraq Romney Says Voters Will Accept a Mormon Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Critics Fault Romney's Abortion Record Romney Assails Sharpton's Mormon Comment Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- The war in Iraq hit home for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney as a former aide who also was a son of a war critic was killed while serving in Iraq. Army First Lt. Andrew J. Bacevich, 27, served as a legislative aide to then-Gov. Mitt Romney in 2004, handling all bills sent to the governor's desk for review and signature. Romney said Tuesday that he talked with Bacevich about his decision to enlist before he left the Massachusetts Statehouse. "I got to know Andrew as a legislative aide in my office, and before he left we met and talked about his plans," Romney said in a statement. "He was driven by a desire to serve, first as part of our team and then as a member of the military. His loss is a deep personal loss for me and for all of those who knew him." Bacevich was killed Sunday when an improvised explosive device exploded while he was on a combat patrol in Salah Ad Din Province, Iraq, according to the Defense Department. The soldier had been assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division at Fort Hood, Texas. Bacevich was a 2003 graduate of Boston University. His father, Andrew, is a Boston University professor, a West Point graduate and veteran of the Vietnam and Persian Gulf wars. The elder Bacevich has criticized President Bush's strategy and said the United States is mired in a war it cannot win through military might alone. In a statement, Bacevich's family remembered him as a man of humor and handsome looks who had overcome the challenges childhood asthma to be an Army officer and a marathon runner. "Andy was a born-leader who felt called to serve his country," the statement said. "Our family will miss him dearly and forever."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EDWARDS_HEDGE_FUND?SITE=KVUE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 15, 5:13 PM EDT Edwards Downplays Time at Hedge Fund Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John Edwards Edwards Downplays Time at Hedge Fund Obama Proposes Changes in Student Loans Edwards Offers Students Anti-War Advice John Edwards' Big Ideas Costly Edwards Discusses Time at Hedge Fund DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards argued on Tuesday that his work for a hedge fund shouldn't overshadow his efforts on poverty and other issues after the 2004 campaign. "If you look at what I've done since the last election, it is true that I did consulting work for a hedge fund, part time," Edwards told The Associated Press in a brief interview. "It's also true that I started a poverty center at the University of North Carolina, that I led minimum wage initiatives in six states - all successful - that I started a college-for-everyone program for poor communities in eastern North Carolina, that I helped organize thousands of workers into unions, that I did humanitarian work in Africa." Edwards, the Democrats' 2004 vice presidential nominee, again declined to say how much money he was paid for his yearlong position with the New York-based Fortress Investment Group. "It will come out when the disclosure comes out," Edwards said, referring to financial reports due Tuesday. Last week, in an interview with the AP, Edwards said he worked for a hedge fund between presidential campaigns to learn about financial markets and their relationship to poverty - and to make money too. Fortress reported assets of about $35.1 billion as of Dec. 31, 2006. Hedge funds, now numbering more than 9,000 in the U.S. with assets estimated to exceed $1 trillion, traditionally cater to the rich, as well as pension funds and university endowments, but are increasingly luring less wealthy investors. Edwards said his work at Fortress should be put into context with the anti-poverty work he's undertaken since he and John Kerry made a failed run for the White House. "If you look at all the things I've done since the last election, it's pretty clear where my commitment is," he said. Edwards was in Iowa to announce the support of 1,500 women caucus-goers. In the interview, Edwards said the experience he gained in the 2004 Iowa caucuses has taught him the need for a grass-roots organization in the state. "I can tell you I've been through this," he said. "I'm experienced and seasoned at what it takes to organize in Iowa." Although his main Democratic rivals, Illinois Sen. Barack Obama and New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, draw larger crowds, Edwards said is focused more on organizing. Such work paid off in a surprising second-place showing in Iowa in 2004 and will pay dividends again, he said. Only about 100,000 Democratic activists will likely show up to decide the caucuses on Jan. 14, and most will have met at least one of the candidates. Edwards said the comfort level he's built with activists over the years is a distinct advantage. "I think the importance of it is that people in Iowa - caucus-goers - feel like they know me, they know Elizabeth," said Edwards. "That comfort level makes it easier for them to hear what you want to do as president. It doesn't yet mean they are for you, but it means they are more receptive to what you have to say." Tuesday's visit was Edwards' 23rd to Iowa since the 2004 election.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CANDIDATES_FINANCES?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:42 PM EDT Brownback Divests of Sudan Investments presidential candidate Sam Brownback, an outspoken critic of the violence in Sudan, divested his stock portfolio of companies that do business with the African nation. Brownback listed sales of nearly two dozen investments, several of which were mutual funds whose holdings include companies active in Sudan, according to a financial disclosure report he filed Tuesday. Among them was a mutual fund in the name of Brownback's wife valued at between $50,000 and $100,000. Other Sudan-related investments were in the names of the couples' children. "Most of the movement of mutual funds in the portfolio was at the direction of the family to divest of Sudan-related investments," Brownback spokesman Brian Hart said. Brownback also listed a blind trust held jointly with his wife that is valued between $1 million and $5 million. Last year, Brownback aides said he would seek legal advice on whether he could request that any Sudan-related investments be sold, but under the rules of the trust Brownback cannot be made aware of any transactions. Brownback was the first presidential candidate to make his financial report public Tuesday as he filed it with the Federal Election Commission. Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, D-N.Y., and Republican Tommy Thompson joined three other presidential candidates in obtaining extensions to file their personal financial disclosure reports. The reports identify the assets, liabilities and sources of income of the candidates and their spouses. Other candidates filed their reports with the FEC by Tuesday's deadline. The FEC will make them public within days. Clinton and former President Clinton are millionaires, according to past disclosure forms. In 2005, the former president made nearly $7.5 million in speaking fees. The couple had a blind trust valued at between $5 million and $25 million and a Citibank account of similar size. Clinton spokesman Phil Singer said the senator requested the extension "to ensure we provide a complete disclosure form." The presidential candidate disclosures require more detailed reporting than Senate financial forms. For instance, Clinton would have to report all the former president's speeches up to the date of filing. The others who received 45-day extensions are Republicans - former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, Sen. John McCain of Arizona and former Virginia Gov. Jim Gilmore. McCain had filed a disclosure report earlier this year, but the FEC and the Office of Government Ethics concluded that he needed to file anew. McCain requested the extension, in part, because the ethics office said he needed to disclose holdings in a blind trust in the name of McCain's wife, Cindy. The trust has assets between $500,000 and $1 million. Brownback also reported a $15,000 advance for a book, "From Power to Purpose: A Remarkable Journey of Faith and Compassion," which tells of his Kansas upbringing and how it shaped his softer-edged brand of conservatism. The advance and other proceeds will go to a Kansas-based adoption fund started by Brownback and his wife, Mary, to help people without the means pay for adopting children. The Brownbacks adopted their daughter Jenna from China and their son Mark from Guatemala in 1998. In addition to filing financial disclosures, another common practice in presidential campaigns is the release of income tax returns. But so far this year, only Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., has released his 2006 tax returns. He and his wife Michelle reported total income of $991,000, with more than half from Obama's two books - a memoir and his political treatise, "The Audacity of Hope." Sen. Chris Dodd, D-Conn., announced Tuesday that he, too, would release his tax returns. While the disclosure reports reveal the identity of income sources and of the assets held by candidates and their spouses, they only provide a range of the amount of the holding. That makes it difficult to determine a candidate's net worth. In an interview with The Associated Press on Tuesday, Democrat John Edwards declined to reveal the amount of money he made working for Fortress Investment Group, a hedge fund that Edwards said he joined to better understand the relationship between wealth and poverty. Edwards said his financial disclosure would show how much he earned, but only Edwards' tax return would specify the exact amount. The disclosure would only list his income as a range - $250,000-$500,000 or $500,000-$1 million, for instance. Republican Rudy Giuliani released his tax returns while he was mayor of New York. Since then, however, he has been involved in a series of private consulting ventures. Romney, who founded the investment company Bain Capital, has total assets estimated at between $190 million and $250 million.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/U/US_IRAQ?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:13 PM EDT Clinton, Obama Back Iraq Fund Cutoff The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 U.S. Allows Mahdi Army a Security Role Iraqis Struggle in Police Training Four Years: AP Journalists Look Back Iraq and Vietnam: Contrasting Protests Land Mines From Iran-Iraq War Sold on Black Market Iraqi Outpost Tests War Strategy Iraq's Toll Felt Across U.S. Soldier Diagnosed Before Attack end soldier diagnosis --> end interactive icon section --> How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Latest photos from Iraq Pentagon Identifies Ambushed U.S. Troops Bush Eyes Football After Social Buzz Search for Missing Soldiers Intensifies Bush Reels in Gifts From U.S. Admirers Clinton, Obama Back Iraq Fund Cutoff Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton separately declared their support Tuesday for a March 31, 2008 cutoff in funds for the Iraq war, two Democratic presidential front-runners abruptly shifting positions on the issue at the heart of the 2008 race. The twin announcements came on the eve of a largely symbolic Senate vote, and as Connecticut Sen. Chris Dodd, said in a campaign commercial it was unfortunate that his White House rivals "will not join me" in supporting legislation setting the cutoff date. In a written statement issued in early afternoon, Obama said that after 1,518 days, "the Iraq war rages on, with no sign of a resolution." The Illinois senator said he would vote for a cutoff in war funding as well as a second bill setting standards for the Iraqi government "not because I believe either is the best answer, but because I want to send a strong statement to the Iraqi government, the president and my Republican colleagues that it's long past time to change course." A few hours later, a spokesman for Clinton said she, too, would support the measure. Clinton will cast her vote "to send the president a clear message that it is time to change course, redeploy our troops out of Iraq, and end this war as soon as possible," said Philippe Reines, a spokesman in her Senate office. The Senate is scheduled to vote Wednesday on legislation by Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., to require President Bush to begin the "safe, phased withdrawal of U.S. forces" within 120 days. After March 31, 2008, all funds would be cut off for the deployment of troops in Iraq, with three exceptions: "targeted operations" against al-Qaida and other terrorists; security of U.S. facilities and personnel; training and equipping of Iraqi security forces. Feingold conceded last week he does not expect the measure to prevail, and it will come to the Senate floor requiring 60 votes to advance. Obama and Clinton have competed for months for the support of anti-war activists, yet also sought and have been mindful of the need to project the strength that voters seek in a commander in chief. Both voted against legislation last June that would have required the withdrawal of all U.S. combat troops from Iraq by July 1, 2007, but that was before public opposition to the war hardened or they had entered the campaign. Until their statements, neither had indicated any support for a troop withdrawal on a fixed, binding timetable despite numerous opportunities to do so. "We've got to have a political solution, begin a phased withdrawal and make certain that we've got benchmarks in place so that the Iraqi people can make a determination about how they want to move forward," Obama said last month in the Democrats' first presidential debate. But Clinton, in particular, has spoken out repeatedly against the idea of a fixed timetable for a withdrawal. She drew boos from an audience in June 2006 after criticizing President Bush, then adding, "Nor do I think it is smart strategy to set a date certain. I do not agree that that is in the best interest of our troops or our country." Less than two months ago, Clinton was asked in an ABC interview whether she would sign legislation with a deadline for a troop withdrawal. "Well, at this point, that's not possible. But if I were president, I would certainly work with the Congress to begin to withdraw troops," she replied. Feingold's legislation is one of several expected to come to a vote on Wednesday, as the Democratic-controlled Congress struggles to clear legislation for Bush's signature by the end of next week to continue U.S. military operations through Sept. 30. The House last week passed legislation funding the war on two separate, 60-day installments. The Senate must take the next step by passing its own measure. Given the political forces at work, that legislation will be a placeholder, its only purpose to trigger three-way negotiations involving the House, Senate and Bush administration on a final compromise. As a result, officials said during the day that Reid and Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell had discussed jointly advancing a bill so barebones that it contained no funds, and did little more than express congressional support for the troops. Negotiations on the final compromise are expected to take days. Bush has already signaled he will not accept the type of troop withdrawal timetables that Democrats want. For their part, Republicans hope to craft a measure that signals to the public that their patience for the war is running out. Several key GOP lawmakers circulated a proposal during the day that would establish political and military goals for the Iraqi government. U.S. reconstruction funds could be cut if Bush was unable to certify that they were being met. In contrast to the complex Senate maneuvering, the competition among the Democratic presidential contenders was simplicity itself - each contender seeking support among anti-war activists, yet striving for consistency and mindful of the need to project the strength that voters seek in a commander in chief.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FIRED_PROSECUTORS?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:43 PM EDT Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings By LARA JAKES JORDAN AP Photo/Haraz N. Ghanbari Gonzales: A Career Timeline The Fired Prosecutors: A Primer List of Sampson Documents Withheld from Congress Part I: Sampson-Miers e-mails Part II: Sampson-Miers e-mails Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings Deputy Attorney General to Resign Post Gonzales Deflects Democrats' Criticism Excerpts From Gonzales Hearing General Alberto Gonzales said Tuesday he relied heavily on his deputy to oversee the firings of U.S. attorneys, appearing to distance himself from his departing second-in-command. Gonzales' comments came the day after Deputy Attorney General Paul McNulty said he would step down by the end of summer, a decision that people familiar with his plans said was hastened by the controversy over last year's firings of eight prosecutors. "At the end of the day, the recommendations reflected the views of the deputy attorney general. He signed off on the names," Gonzales told reporters after a speech about Justice Department steps to curb rising violent crime. "The one person I would care about would be the views of the deputy attorney general, because the deputy attorney general is the direct supervisor of the United States attorneys," Gonzales said. McNulty, reached in San Antonio after Gonzales' remarks, declined to respond. Gonzales has said he most valued McNulty's opinions about firing the prosecutors, now under investigation by Congress to determine if they were politically motivated. But his remarks Tuesday, on the heels of McNulty's resignation, underscored weeks of strain between the two men and their staffs. It also raised questions of whether McNulty's resignation also was ordered, despite his insistence that it was his own decision to step down. Gonzales, a longtime friend and adviser to President Bush, has so far survived calls for his own resignation. "At the end of the day, that really is a question for the president of the United States," the attorney general said anew Tuesday. "He gets to make that call." On Capitol Hill, lawmakers from both parties defended McNulty and rapped Gonzales' leadership of the Justice Department. Sen. Arlen Specter, top Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee, called McNulty a "professional" and then added: "It's embarrassing for a professional to work for the Department of Justice today." "It is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is," said Specter, R-Pa. House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers, D-Mich., questioned whether McNulty was being made to take the blame for the department's botched handling of the firings. "With this Justice Department, the buck always stops somewhere else, and the fall guy is always the last guy out of the door," said Conyers. McNulty has acknowledged approving, last October, the list of prosecutors who were ordered to leave. But documents released by the Justice Department show he was not closely involved in picking all the U.S. attorneys who were put on the list - a job mostly driven by two Gonzales staffers with little prosecutorial experience. Gonzales ultimately signed off on the list. He said he was reassured by McNulty as recently as March that the firings were justified. Gonzales called McNulty's pending departure "a loss. ... I'm really going to miss him." White House spokesman Tony Snow said McNulty's departure would not affect Gonzales' standing with the president. "Paul also served this country very well and we certainly thank him for his service, but it certainly does not change the way in which we view the attorney general," Snow said. "Instead, what we do is we thank Paul for his service." Former federal terrorism prosecutor Aitan Goelman, who attended Gonzales' speech, said the attorney general seemed intent on highlighting McNulty's role in the controversy. "It clearly seemed deliberate," said Goelman, who was hired to work at Justice Department headquarters during the GOP administration of President George H.W. Bush and continued working for Democratic Attorney General Janet Reno. "He took pains to describe McNulty as someone who was closely consulted and in the loop." Gonzales also disagreed with his former deputy attorney general, Jim Comey, who earlier this month told a House panel that senior Justice aides may have permanently tarnished the department if they, as alleged, hired career prosecutors based on political affiliations. "Sometimes mistakes happen," Gonzales said. "This is a great institution that always recovers from those mistakes." Comey, testifying at a Senate panel at almost the same time, said he had a high opinion of Gonzales - and most of the U.S. attorneys who were fired. "He was smart and engaged," Comey said of Gonzales. "I did not have reason to question his judgment as attorney general."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EAVESDROPPING?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:46 PM EDT White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes top Justice Department official thought President Bush's no-warrant wiretapping program was so questionable that he refused for a time to reauthorize it, leading to a standoff with White House officials at the bedside of the ailing attorney general, a Senate panel was told Tuesday. Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey told the Senate Judiciary Committee that he refused to recertify the program because Attorney General John Ashcroft had reservations about its legality just before falling ill with pancreatitis in March 2004. The White House, Comey said, recertified the program without the Justice Department's signoff, allowing it to operate for about three weeks without concurrence on whether it was legal. Comey, Ashcroft, FBI Director Robert Mueller and other Justice Department officials at one point considered resigning, Comey said. "I couldn't stay, if the administration was going to engage in conduct that the Department of Justice had said had no legal basis," Comey told the panel. A day after the March 10, 2004, incident at Ashcroft's hospital bedside, President Bush ordered changes to the program to accommodate the department's concerns. Ashcroft signed the presidential order to recertify the program about three weeks later. The dramatic hospital confrontation involved Comey, the acting attorney general during Ashcroft's absence, and a White House team that included Bush's then-counsel, Alberto Gonzales, and White House Chief of Staff Andy Card, Comey said. Gonzales later succeeded Ashcroft as attorney general. Senior government officials had expressed concerns about whether the National Security Agency, which administered the warrantless eavesdropping program, had the proper oversight in place. Other concerns included whether any president possessed the legal and constitutional authority to authorize the program as it operated at the time. Comey testified Tuesday that when he refused to certify the program, Gonzales and Card headed to Ashcroft's sick bed in the intensive care unit at George Washington University Hospital. When Gonzales appealed to Ashcroft, the ailing attorney general lifted his head off the pillow and in straightforward terms described his views of the program, Comey said. Then he pointed out that Comey, not Ashcroft, held the powers of the attorney general at that moment. Gonzales and Card then left the hospital room, Comey said. "I was angry," Comey told the panel. "I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man who did not have the powers of the attorney general." Comey's testimony revived one of the Bush administration's most bitter internal fights just as Gonzales appeared less under siege about the firings of several U.S. attorneys last year. Bush has stood solidly by his longtime counselor's side; calls for Gonzales' resignation have waned in recent weeks. Asked about Comey's testimony, White House press secretary Tony Snow said he didn't know anything about the conversation at Ashcroft's bedside. But he defended the program. "Because he had an appendectomy, his brain didn't work?" Snow said of Ashcroft. "Jim Comey can talk about whatever reservations he may have had. But the fact is that there were strong protections in there, this program has saved lives and it's vital for national security and furthermore has been reformed in a bipartisan way." Dean Boyd, a Justice Department spokesman, said he couldn't comment on "internal discussions that may or may have not taken place concerning classified intelligence activities." But he said the program succeeded in helping detect and prevent terrorist attacks and was always subject to rigorous oversight and review. Democrats cited Comey's testimony as evidence of what they say is Gonzales' tendency to put loyalty to Bush ahead of most everything - including Justice's tradition of independence from the politics of the White House. "What happened in that hospital room crystallized Mr. Gonzales' view about the rule of law: that he holds it in minimum low regard," said Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y. Under questioning by Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., Comey said he was not threatened by Vice President Dick Cheney or other White House officials who disagreed with him on the legality of the eavesdropping program. Comey recalled that after the bedside incident he started to offer his resignation and was persuaded to wait a few days until Ashcroft could resign with him. "Mr. Ashcroft's chief of staff asked me something that meant a great deal to him, and that is that I not resign until Mr. Ashcroft was well enough to resign with me," Comey said. On March 12 at their daily briefing of the president, Bush asked Comey and Mueller for separate private conversations on Justice's concerns about the eavesdropping program. There, Comey said, Bush agreed to do "the right thing." "We had the president's direction to do what we believed, what the Justice Department believed, was necessary to put this matter on a footing where we could certify to its legality," Comey said of the period after those private meetings. "We did that." Spokesmen for Ashcroft and Mueller refused requests for comment.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MEXICAN_TRUCKS?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 5:08 PM EDT House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks By JESSE J. HOLLAND AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress White House Pressed Ashcroft on Wiretaps House Bill Offers Student Loan Incentive House Votes to Restrict Mexican Trucks Senators Aim to Save Kids From Backovers House Increases Money for Police Program The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes House voted overwhelmingly Tuesday to delay a Bush administration plan to allow Mexican trucks full access to U.S. highways. The trucks would have to be declared safe first, the lawmakers said, and Mexico would have to give U.S. truckers the same access south of the border. The House voted 411-3 to approve a three-year Department of Transportation pilot program that would restrict opening the border to 100 carriers based in Mexico. They would be allowed to use a maximum of 1,000 vehicles under the pilot program. The Bush administration wanted to start a pilot program this year that would run for a year before fully opening the border to Mexican trucks. The House bill, however, specifies criteria for the pilot program before it can start, including setting up an independent panel to evaluate the test program and getting certification from the inspector general that safety and inspection requirements have been met. The Department of Transportation says it could be as late as 2008 before Congress's criteria are met, according to the Congressional Budget Office. Lawmakers said their major concern is whether Mexican trucks, often older than U.S. cargo vehicles, and Mexican drivers will be able to meet rigorous U.S. safety standards. "We do not need 90,000-pound unguided missiles on our highways," said Rep. Robin Hayes, R-N.C. American trucking companies have spent years getting their vehicles up to the Transportation Department standards, lawmakers said. Letting Mexican trucks across the border without making them meet those standards is wrong, they said. "We're going to have a major accident somewhere, and people are going to say, 'How did this happen?" said Rep. Bob Filner, D-Calif. Added Rep. Candice Miller, R-Mich: "We need to ensure that this program only takes places after the Mexican companies meet the same conditions that American companies do." Lawmakers also complained that allowing Mexican trucks greater access will cost American truckers their jobs. "You can get a Mexican truck driver to work for a heck of a lot less than a Teamster in the United States, and you can get a Mexican dock worker to work for a heck of a lot less than a longshoreman in the United States and that's what this is ultimately designed to do," said Rep. Peter DeFazio, D-Ore. The Teamsters, the Sierra Club, Public Citizen and the Environmental Law Foundation sued in federal court in April to block the pilot program, citing safety and environmental concerns. "We don't know how safety laws such as hours of service and drug testing would be enforced," Teamster President Jim Hoffa said. "This vote by the House repudiates those questionable attempts to open our borders without adequate safeguards." The Bush administration had planned to run a yearlong pilot program that would allow Mexican trucks beyond the current 20-mile limit from the border but the launch was halted after complaints from Congress. Since 1982, trucks have had to stop within the buffer zone and transfer their loads to U.S. truckers to take them into the country. The legislation would allow Mexican drivers to take their loads from Mexico to any point within the country. Supporters of the plan say letting more Mexican trucks on U.S. highways will save American consumers hundreds of millions of dollars. They include many in the trucking industry, the Bush administration and lawmakers who favor the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Access to all U.S. highways was promised by 2000 under the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement, as was access through Mexico for U.S. carriers. That aspect has been stalled by lawsuits and disagreements between the two countries, though Canadian and U.S. trucks travel freely across the northern border. The bill number is HR 1773.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SOLDIER_KILLED_ROMNEY?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 4:54 PM EDT Former Romney Aide Killed in Iraq Photos of Mitt Romney Former Romney Aide Killed in Iraq Romney Says Voters Will Accept a Mormon Romney's Estimated Wealth in Millions Critics Fault Romney's Abortion Record Romney Assails Sharpton's Mormon Comment Iraq? Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand BOSTON (AP) -- The war in Iraq hit home for Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney as a former aide who also was a son of a war critic was killed while serving in Iraq. Army First Lt. Andrew J. Bacevich, 27, served as a legislative aide to then-Gov. Mitt Romney in 2004, handling all bills sent to the governor's desk for review and signature. Romney said Tuesday that he talked with Bacevich about his decision to enlist before he left the Massachusetts Statehouse. "I got to know Andrew as a legislative aide in my office, and before he left we met and talked about his plans," Romney said in a statement. "He was driven by a desire to serve, first as part of our team and then as a member of the military. His loss is a deep personal loss for me and for all of those who knew him." Bacevich was killed Sunday when an improvised explosive device exploded while he was on a combat patrol in Salah Ad Din Province, Iraq, according to the Defense Department. The soldier had been assigned to the 3rd Battalion, 8th Cavalry Regiment, 3rd Brigade Combat Team, 1st Cavalry Division at Fort Hood, Texas. Bacevich was a 2003 graduate of Boston University. His father, Andrew, is a Boston University professor, a West Point graduate and veteran of the Vietnam and Persian Gulf wars. The elder Bacevich has criticized President Bush's strategy and said the United States is mired in a war it cannot win through military might alone. In a statement, Bacevich's family remembered him as a man of humor and handsome looks who had overcome the challenges childhood asthma to be an Army officer and a marathon runner. "Andy was a born-leader who felt called to serve his country," the statement said. "Our family will miss him dearly and forever."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/EDWARDS_HEDGE_FUND?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:17 PM EDT Edwards Downplays Time at Hedge Fund Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand Latest Photos of John Edwards Edwards Downplays Time at Hedge Fund Obama Proposes Changes in Student Loans Edwards Offers Students Anti-War Advice John Edwards' Big Ideas Costly Edwards Discusses Time at Hedge Fund DES MOINES, Iowa (AP) -- Democratic presidential candidate John Edwards argued on Tuesday that his work for a hedge fund shouldn't overshadow his efforts on poverty and other issues after the 2004 campaign. "If you look at what I've done since the last election, it is true that I did consulting work for a hedge fund, part time," Edwards told The Associated Press in a brief interview. "It's also true that I started a poverty center at the University of North Carolina, that I led minimum wage initiatives in six states - all successful - that I started a college-for-everyone program for poor communities in eastern North Carolina, that I helped organize thousands of workers into unions, that I did humanitarian work in Africa." Edwards, the Democrats' 2004 vice presidential nominee, again declined to say how much money he was paid for his yearlong position with the New York-based Fortress Investment Group. "It will come out when the disclosure comes out," Edwards said, referring to financial reports due Tuesday. Last week, in an interview with the AP, Edwards said he worked for a hedge fund between presidential campaigns to learn about financial markets and their relationship to poverty - and to make money too. Fortress reported assets of about $35.1 billion as of Dec. 31, 2006. Hedge funds, now numbering more than 9,000 in the U.S. with assets estimated to exceed $1 trillion, traditionally cater to the rich, as well as pension funds and university endowments, but are increasingly luring less wealthy investors. Edwards said his work at Fortress should be put into context with the anti-poverty work he's undertaken since he and John Kerry made a failed run for the White House. "If you look at all the things I've done since the last election, it's pretty clear where my commitment is," he said. Questions have arisen about Fortress and subprime mortgages, which open up homeownership to people who otherwise can't buy a house because of little money for a down payment or weak credit. In mid-March, Newcastle Investment Corp., a real estate investment trust managed by Fortress, got into the subprime mortgage market as other players fled the credit crunch, agreeing to buy a $1.7 billion portfolio of about 7,300 subprime mortgages. Also in March, Fortress bought subprime mortgages from Fremont General Corp., after it got out of the subprime lending business under pressure from federal regulators. Edwards was in Iowa to announce the support of 1,500 women caucus-goers. In the interview, Edwards said the experience he gained in the 2004 Iowa caucuses has taught him the need for a grass-roots organization in the state. "I can tell you I've been through this," he said. "I'm experienced and seasoned at what it takes to organize in Iowa." Although his main Democratic rivals, Illinois Sen. Barack Obama and New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton, draw larger crowds, Edwards said is focused more on organizing. Such work paid off in a surprising second-place showing in Iowa in 2004 and will pay dividends again, he said. Only about 100,000 Democratic activists will likely show up to decide the caucuses on Jan. 14, and most will have met at least one of the candidates. Edwards said the comfort level he's built with activists over the years is a distinct advantage. "I think the importance of it is that people in Iowa - caucus-goers - feel like they know me, they know Elizabeth," said Edwards. "That comfort level makes it easier for them to hear what you want to do as president. It doesn't yet mean they are for you, but it means they are more receptive to what you have to say." Tuesday's visit was Edwards' 23rd to Iowa since the 2004 election. Associated Press Writer Marcy Gordon in Washington contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/REPUBLICANS_DEBATE?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:40 PM EDT Iraq, Abortion Loom Over Primary Debate AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais Take the October '06 Opinion Poll Iraq, Abortion Loom Over Primary Debate Giuliani Emerging As Favorite of Gays GOP Lawmakers: Loyalty to Bush May Hurt GOP Contenders Embrace Reagan Legacy Quotes From Republican Debate S.C. (AP) -- Iraq and abortion loom large as 10 Republican presidential candidates debate a second time Tuesday. On one issue - the four-year-old war - the GOP field is largely in sync, backing President Bush in opposing Democratic calls for beginning a withdrawal of U.S. forces. But the candidates are split on social issues, most notably a women's right to terminate a pregnancy. Less than two weeks ago, top-tier candidates Rudy Giuliani, John McCain and Mitt Romney shared a stage in Simi Valley, Calif., with seven underdogs competing for the GOP nomination in the first Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. Iraq and social issues dominated the discourse that night, a preview of what was sure to await the candidates in Columbia, S.C., where conservative Christians make up a large chunk of the state's GOP primary voters. Since the California event, Giuliani has reaffirmed his support for abortion rights after his convoluted debate answer on whether he would welcome the Supreme Court overturning its landmark decision legalizing abortion. He personally opposes the procedure. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor; McCain, a four-term Arizona senator, and Romney, the ex-governor of Massachusetts, were facing Sen. Sam Brownback of Kansas, former Govs. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin and Jim Gilmore of Virginia. Reps. Ron Paul of Texas, Duncan Hunter of California and Tom Tancredo of Colorado also were participating. Paul, the Libertarian presidential nominee in 1988, voted against giving Bush the authority to wage war in Iraq in 2002. Hours before the debate, candidates responded to the death of the Rev. Jerry Falwell, the television evangelist who founded the Moral Majority and was a force in conservative politics. McCain, who once called Falwell and his ilk "agents of intolerance," praised him in a statement as "a man of distinguished accomplishment who devoted his life to serving his faith and country." Romney described Falwell as "an American who built and led a movement based on strong principles and strong faith." Giuliani told reporters after a tour of the debate site: "He was a man who set a direction. He is someone who is not afraid to speak his mind." The University of South Carolina's Koger Center for the Arts was the setting for the debate, sponsored by the South Carolina Republican Party and Fox News Channel. The channel's Brit Hume was moderating. Underscoring the dominant issues, Americans Against Escalation in Iraq and the South Carolina Young Democrats sponsored a 20-foot mobile billboard to circle the debate site, bearing the phrases: "Republicans, Mission Accomplished?" and "McCain, Mission Accomplished?" And, activists affiliated with Planned Parenthood also were holding an abortion-rights rally outside the hall.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CRACK_COCAINE?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 6:34 PM EDT Congress Urged to Repeal Crack Sentences should repeal a law that puts first-time offenders behind bars for at least five years for possessing tiny amounts of crack cocaine, the U.S. Sentencing Commission said Tuesday. Enacted amid the crack epidemic of the 1980s, the Anti-Drug Abuse Act imposes the mandatory minimum sentence for possessing five grams of crack, which weighs the same as five paper clips. It takes a hundred times the amount of powder cocaine to result in the same prison term as for crack, the commission said. It urged Congress to deal with that disparity by increasing threshold quantities for crack cocaine offenses to focus on major traffickers. Federal cocaine sentencing policy is under "almost universal criticism" from the judiciary, criminal justice practitioners, academics and community interest groups, the commission concluded in 115-page annual report to Capitol Hill. The commission is on the right track by directing its attention to penalties for crack cocaine, which are "overly harsh and unwarranted," said Marc Mauer, executive director of the Sentencing Project, a private group. In April, the commission voted to lower the recommended sentencing range for those caught with small quantities of crack cocaine. The recommendation will become effective Nov. 1 unless Congress acts.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/O/ON_THE_2008_TRAIL?SITE=WYCHE&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Wyoming Tribune-Eagle Online :: AP News May 15, 5:48 PM EDT American Legion Leader Rebukes Edwards Global Warming? Gay Marriage? See Where the Candidates Stand NEW YORK (AP) -- Democrat John Edwards' call for voters to speak out against the Iraq war on Memorial Day has drawn criticism from a leader of the American Legion, who called the effort "revolting." In an e-mail message and on his Web site, Edwards asks supporters to honor and pray for the troops on Memorial Day and to send them care packages and treats. But the presidential candidate also urges supporters to use the holiday to denounce the war - an effort Paul Morin, national commander of the American Legion, decried as an attempt to "politicize" the day. "Revolting is a kind word for it. It's as inappropriate as a political bumper sticker on an Arlington headstone," Morin wrote on the Legion's Web site. "Edwards is hardly the first politician from either political party to exploit this day, a holiday that was consecrated with the blood of American heroes. But the e-mail makes me sick nonetheless." Late last year, Morin also denounced Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic presidential nominee, for his well-publicized gaffe suggesting uneducated people were more likely to get sent to fight in Iraq. But in an interview Tuesday, Morin said he was politically unaffiliated and that he had criticized politicians of both parties. "When we speak out on veterans' issues, and are more often in line with Democrats. On the Iraq war, we are more in line with Republicans. It's the issues that matter, not the politics," Morin said. The American Legion was chartered by Congress in 1919 as a nonpartisan veterans' organization. Morin was particularly critical of Edwards' call for supporters to carry anti-war posters in their local Memorial Day parades. "It's not about picnics or trips to the beach. It's not about making pro- or anti-war statements. It's not about supporting political candidates," Morin wrote.
