http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6708075.stm buys 27 new Boeing planes GMT 13:56 buys 27 new Boeing planes Passenger growth is expected to boost Ryanair results out next week Budget airline Ryanair has signed a deal to buy 27 737-800 planes from Boeing worth a possible $1.9bn (£960m). The aircraft will be delivered between 2009 and 2010, increasing the Irish carrier's total fleet to 262 by 2012. Ryanair said the planes would be fitted with technology to reduce fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has said in the past that "the recent hysteria" over the impact of flying on climate change is "misguided and misplaced". Mr O' Leary says aviation accounts for less than 1.6% of greenhouse gas emissions. In buying the environmentally-friendly 737-800, the group said it was "strengthening Ryanair's position as Europe's cheapest, greenest and cleanest airline". "Ryanair guarantees passengers that they will not find a cheaper fare with any other airline on any of its 487 routes," added Ryanair's chief financial officer Howard Millar. "The combination of the lowest per seat operating cost and the reliability of these Boeing 737 800s will benefit millions of additional passengers in the coming five years as we extend our route network and our guaranteed lowest fares." The fast-expanding no-frills airline, which is due to report its annual results next week, is waiting for the conclusion of a European Union investigation into whether its proposed takeover of rival Aer Lingus would hamper competition in the airline industry. AND AUDIO NEWS Ryanair's boss explains the firm's green credentials Ryanair threatens to sack pilots 07 Feb 07 | UK Ryanair sees profits soar by 30% 05 Feb tax increase comes into force 01 Feb Lingus rejects Ryanair's bid 03 Nov renews airline criticism 05 Jan 07 | Politics From no-frills to flag carrier 05 Oct
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706797.stm unveils 4,000 job cuts GMT 06:24 unveils 4,000 job cuts Analysts say Motorola needs a better range of phones Motorola has announced plans to shed an additional 4,000 jobs this year, as it continues efforts to reduce costs and reverse a fall in profits. The world's second largest mobile phone-maker, US-based Motorola was already on target to complete 3,500 job reductions by the end of June. It forecasts the combined job losses and other cost-cutting moves will save the firm $600m (£304m) a year. Motorola has been losing market share to rivals amid tough price competition. Mobile phone analyst Lawrence Harris said Motorola was also handicapped by a weak range of phones. "The extra job cuts will certainly help them return to profitability but it's not enough to get them to the double digit profit margins they seek," he said. "They need exciting new products." Back in January, Motorola announced that its fourth quarter profits fell 48% to $624m. raises pressure on Motorola 01 to go in Motorola jobs cull 19 Jan alert prompts stock fall 05 Jan results hit Motorola shares 18 Oct in India contract battle 10 Oct buys barcode scan firm 19 Sep
http://www.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/guidelines/editorialguidelines/advice/ BBC - Editorial Guidelines - More Guidance Editorial Guidelines in Full How to use this site Send it to a friend! The following guidance, guidelines and links supplement the BBC Editorial Guidelines. Always read the relevant section of the Guidelines as well as the guidance. Click on the text to see the guidance as web pages. Click on the word document icon to read a word document. List of guidance in alphabetical order: Access Agreements and Indemnity Forms Conflicts of Interest Guidelines Election Guidelines: May 2007 Employees Personal Weblogs and Websites, Guidelines on Game Shows and Competitions Informed Consent and Consent Forms Make-Over Programmes, Funding and Selection of Contributors National Lottery, Guidelines For Coverage Of Non Sports Events, Mounting and Coverage Of Northern Ireland Assembly Election Coverage Guidelines Off-air Activities Guidance Note for News and Current Affairs Presenters and Editorial Staff in BBC News, BBC Nations and Regions and BBC Global News Parliamentary Broadcasting: Rules of Coverage Recording The Natural World Reporting The United Kingdom Television Viewers with Hearing Loss, Guidance on Terrorism, Use of Language When Reporting Video and Audio News Releases Video, Audio and Stills Contributions From Members Of The Public in BBC News Output Visually Impaired Television Viewers, Guidance on Some links below lead to information on the BBC's internal website, which can only be accessed by BBC staff. If you need this information please contact Editorial Policy. Branding Guidelines from BBC Marketing and Communication (Link to internal BBC site) Joint Promotions with Third Parties in the UK, Guidelines (Link to internal BBC site) (Link to internal BBC site) Trailing of Commercial Products on BBC Public Service Television Channels, Guidelines For Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707209.stm growth at 17-year high GMT 09:49 growth at 17-year high President Gloria Arroyo was delighted with the figures The Philippine economy grew at its fastest rate in 17 years in the first three months of 2007, boosted by all major economic sectors. Official figures showed that the economy expanded at an annual rate of 6.9% during the first quarter, way above market expectations, The service sector led the rise, growing by 9%, followed by industry, up 5%, and agriculture, which grew by 4%. "The Philippines is on a roll," said President Gloria Arroyo. mars Philippine count 15 14 profiles Country profile: The Philippines 28 Mar 07 | Country profiles
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706849.stm rise 'to cool house market' GMT 09:03 rise 'to cool house market' Nationwide warned buyers not to over-stretch themselves The latest rise in UK rates is set to cool housing activity, the Nationwide has said, although annual price growth remained "resilient" during May. Nationwide's latest survey said annual house price inflation stood at 10.3% in May after a 0.5% increase in the month. But the high inflation figure was mainly down to slower price growth a year ago, the building society said. It added the underlying trend was still slowing and warned buyers not to over-stretch themselves financially. "Higher interest rates, with the threat of more on the horizon, should signal caution to those thinking about stretching themselves to get a foot on the ladder," the society said. The price of an average house now stands at £181,584, Nationwide said. Earlier this month, the Bank of England raised UK interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.5% - the fourth rate rise since August last year. The Nationwide said this latest rise would cool both activity and price growth in the housing market. The 0.5% rise in house prices during May was down from April's increase of 0.9%. Meanwhile, the three-month on three-month growth rate - which is often seen as a good indicator of underlying trends - fell to 1.8% in May, its lowest level since August 2006. Nationwide said that it expected a further rise in interest rates to 5.75% later this year as the Bank of England sought to counter inflationary pressures. While higher rates "clearly present risks" to the housing market, Nationwide added that the sector should see a "measured cooling" as long as the economy remained in good shape. Nationwide said that the underlying picture for prices was showing "a clear downward trend as the effect of earlier increases in interest rates takes hold". Recently, there has been a drop-off in mortgage approvals and inquiries from new buyers to estate agents. But so far both the Nationwide survey, and those of other market commentators, have continued to show prices rising steadily with little obvious sign of a slowdown in the pace of increase. On Wednesday, the latest monthly survey from the English and Welsh Land Registry said prices rose twice as fast in April as they did a year ago. Analysts said that the lack of properties for sale would continue to support prices. "Despite slowing demand, house prices still seem likely to lose buoyancy only gradually as a general shortage of property means that pricing power is currently still in favour of the vendor," said Howard Archer, chief UK and European economist at Global Insight. "This is particularly true in London and the South East, where prices are being fuelled by elevated City bonuses and strong foreign demand, as well as an acute shortage of supply." home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6706979.stm lifts Indian growth GMT 08:17 lifts Indian growth Manufacturing, including the car sector, is fuelling the economy The Indian economy grew at an annual rate of 9.1% in the first three months of this year, driven by the strong manufacturing and service sectors. The economic growth was less than market expectations of a 9.4% expansion, but higher than the 8.7% recorded in the last quarter of 2006. Analysts now expect growth to slow slightly over the next year as the government aims to prevent overheating. Manufacturing and services both grew by 12.4% in the first quarter of 2007. Meanwhile, the construction industry expanded by 11.2%, while farming grew by just 3.8%. "The growth rate is clearly impressive and is a very good performance," said HSBC economist Robert Prior-Wandesforde. "But going forward there may be a softening in the growth cycle due to a recent spate of monetary tightening measures. "We expect 2007/08 growth at 7.8%." In March, India's central bank raised interest rates to 7.75% from 7.5%, its highest level in almost four-and-a-half years. It was the second rate rise in three months as the bank sought to rein in inflation fuelled by the fast-growing economy. PM seeks farm sector boost 29 Asia Winners and losers as India booms 21 devour Indian traders 21 Asia What is holding India's economy back 17 Asia Foreign investors face Indian barriers 08 eyes 25 million automotive jobs 30 Apr
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706843.stm property firm bought GMT 07:08 property firm bought Investa's property assets total A$7bn Australian property group Investa has agreed to be bought by US banking giant Morgan Stanley for 4.7bn Australian dollars ($3.9bn; £2bn). If approved by shareholders, it will be the largest purchase of an Australian property company by an overseas firm. The offer is a 14% premium over the Australian firm's Wednesday closing share price. Morgan Stanley said the deal was part of its strategy to increase its real estate presence in Australia. Investa has about A$7bn of commercial and residential assets. The firm's shares have risen 50% over the past year on the back of takeover speculation. Stanley to sell Discover 19 Dec Stanley sees profits slump 21 Sep 05 | Business Morgan Stanley - Real Estate
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707515.stm Black prosecutors rest case GMT 11:51 Black prosecutors rest case Lord Black faces a possible 101 year jail sentence Prosecutors at the Lord Black criminal trial have rested their case against the media mogul after 11 weeks of evidence in a Chicago court room. It is now up to his defence team to convince the jury he did not steal $60m (£30.4m) from Hollinger International. Without explanation, prosecutors have also dropped a single count of money laundering against Lord Black. He still faces 13 other charges including fraud and tax evasion, all of which he denies. In total he is now charged with nine counts of fraud, one of obstruction of justice, one of racketeering or running an organised crime, and two of tax evasion. If found guilty on all counts, Lord Black, 62, faces a jail sentence of up to 101 years. Nine counts of fraud One of obstruction of justice Two of tax evasion Federal prosecutors allege Lord Black Fraudulently received non-compete fees from the sale of Hollinger assets Deprived the company of his honest services Repeatedly benefited himself at the expense of the company and its public shareholders through the abuse of company perks Other executives on trial John Boultbee - former chief financial officer Peter Atkinson - former general counsel Mark Kipnis - former corporate counsel and secretary His three co-defendants, all former executives at newspaper firm Hollinger, face lesser charges. Lord Black and the three others are accused of enriching themselves at the expense of shareholders by pocketing payments made during the sale of hundreds of Hollinger's community newspapers. Lord Black is also accused of abusing corporate perks, such as using the company jet for personal reasons, and spending company funds on everything from a luxury Manhattan apartment to lavish birthday parties for his wife Barbara Amiel. The jury is expected to begin its deliberations in late June. Canadian-born Lord Black became a British citizen in 2001, enabling him to become a member of the House of Lords. Through Hollinger he took control of a number of well-known newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and Chicago Sun-Times. The Daily Telegraph has since been sold, and Hollinger has been renamed Sun-Times Media. 'called on Trump for help' 23 aide tells of 'partnership' 08 witness set for Black trial 07 claim opens Lord Black trial 20 Mar Conrad Black is in the dock 13 Mar fall of Conrad Black 13 Mar
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707261.stm rise in German jobless GMT 10:24 rise in German jobless Strong economic growth has seen unemployment fall for 13 months The German unemployment total unexpectedly rose in May, breaking a run of 13 consecutive monthly falls. The adjusted jobless total increased to 3.855 million in May, up 3,000 on the previous month. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 9.2%, according to official figures from the Federal Labour Office. But economists said the rise in May was probably just a blip and that the jobless total would probably continue falling in the coming months. "It is not a major problem, just a temporary effect," said Ulrike Kastens at Sal. Oppenheim bank. Of more concern was the 4,000 fall in the number of vacancies to 601,000 in adjusted terms. "There is a slight worry in that job vacancies fell again, perhaps a further sign that the employment boom may be losing momentum," said David Brown at Bear Stearns International. "This is something that the European Central Bank must pay very careful attention to, a reminder that it cannot keep raising rates with impunity," he added. jobless dips below 4m mark 01 German growth hits six-year high 11 Jan business confidence soars 19 Dec trade surplus hits record 08 Dec jobless at four-year low 30 Nov still upbeat on economy 23 Nov
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6701865.stm nominates new World Bank chief 30 May 2007, 15:47 GMT 16:47 nominates new World Bank chief US President George W Bush has nominated Robert Zoellick, former deputy secretary of state, to be president of the World Bank. His nomination will be considered by the World Bank's 24-member board of governors, although the US nomination has always been accepted in the past. Mr Zoellick would replace Paul Wolfowitz, who steps down on 30 June. Some members have called for candidates from outside the United States to be considered for the job. Accepting the nomination, Mr Zoellick acknowledged that he had much work to do to deal with the tensions which unseated his predecessor. "We need to put yesterday's discord behind us and focus on the future together," he said. President Bush said of Mr Zoellick: "He has earned the trust and support of leaders from every region of the world." "He is deeply devoted to the mission of the World Bank," he added. He has to establish or rather re-establish confidence in the institution because it was a dark chapter with Wolfowitz Bernard Kouchner, French Foreign Minister Challenges facing new boss Choosing a World Bank boss As deputy secretary of state, Mr Zoellick was chief aide to Condoleezza Rice between February 2005 and June last year. He is also an ex-US trade representative and is currently an executive at the investment bank Goldman Sachs. Mr Zoellick's choice was praised by the new French government. "Mr. Zoellick is certainly the right man for the job," French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said. But he added: "He has to establish or rather re-establish confidence in the institution because it was a dark chapter with Wolfowitz." But Paul Zeitz, executive director of the Global AIDS Alliance, said that he thought Mr Zoellick was a terrible choice. President Bush said Mr Zoellick had built trust in all his top-level jobs "Zoellick has no significant experience in economic development in poor countries," he said. "He has been a close friend to the brand-name pharmaceutical industry, and the bilateral trade agreements he has negotiated effectively block access to generic medication for millions of people." President Bush also used his nomination speech to pay tribute to Paul Wolfowitz. "I thank him for his dedication to the poor and his devotion to the good work of the World Bank," he said. "Bob Zoellick is the right man to succeed Paul in this vital work." AND AUDIO NEWS President Bush and Robert Zoellick at a news conference New World Bank boss chosen Wolfowitz blames media for exit Bush wants American successor World Bank head Wolfowitz to quit Wolfowitz crunch talks continue White House stands by Wolfowitz Wolfowitz 'broke World Bank laws' Wolfowitz was brought down by his own actions, says the BBC's Paul Reynolds. The World Bank after Wolfowitz Profile: IMF and World Bank What the World Bank does
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6703523.stm prices 'still accelerating' 30 May 2007, 11:41 GMT 12:41 prices 'still accelerating' House price rises in Brighton & Hove are matching those in London Brighton & Hove has joined Greater London as the place in England and Wales where house prices are rising fastest, says the Land Registry. Property prices went up by 15.6% in both those areas in the year to April. In England and Wales prices rose by 9.1% on average, faster than the property inflation rate of 8.3% recorded in March. The average home in England and Wales now costs £179,935 - £15,003 more than a year ago. However David Stubbs, of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, predicted the market would cool off. "The acceleration in price growth reflects the strength of the market in previous months but does not signal further strength in the future," he said. "Price rises will moderate as the year progresses." According to the Land Registry, prices are now rising more than twice as fast as they were a year ago. "In April 2006, the annual price change was 4.1%, less than half the 9.1% annual price change in April 2007," it said. The latest figures from the Land Registry lag only slightly behind other house price surveys, for instance those from mortgage lenders such as the Nationwide and the Halifax. These have both suggested recently that house price inflation has been running in double figures. The registry says overall prices are being driven by the market in London, where the cost of buying a home has been rising much faster than in England and Wales as a whole. As a result, the average London home, at £333,785, now costs nearly £154,000 more than the average for England and Wales. The area where prices have risen least in the past year is Nottingham. There they have gone up by just 1%, leaving the cost of an average property at £101,810. home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707153.stm shares claw back losses GMT 10:00 shares claw back losses The central bank wants a market where big firms play a central role Chinese shares closed higher, despite a weak opening, following Wednesday's tripling of share trading tax. Chinese authorities decided to increase the tax from 0.1% to 0.3% in an attempt to clamp down on speculative trading. The Shanghai Composite Index closed 56.57 points or 1.4% higher at 4,109.65 having earlier dropped below 4,000. Larger companies led the rises after comments from the central bank were taken to mean that they might be less affected by the clamp down. A report from the central bank said it wanted to develop a stock market where larger companies, known as blue chips, played a leading role. Pudong Development Bank rose to its 10% daily limit, as did the oil refining giant Sinopec. Societe Generale showed confidence in the Chinese market by applying to double the amount it is allowed to invest in it. Pascal Sefrin, general manager of the French bank's Shanghai branch, said it had used up its initial quota under the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor programme. "Our quota at present is $50m (£25.3m) and we are applying to double it," he said. China's economic liberalisation forged a new Shanghai Taking on the multinationals Banking on China's boom Cracking China's car market The changing face of outsourcing Rivals chase GM at auto show China's new economic frontier How globalisation is driving change across the world economy Globalisation shakes the world Has outsourcing changed the world?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6707853.stm | Devon | Rise in profits for water company GMT 13:03 in profits for water company The rise in bills was almost double the average for the country South West Water (SWW) has announced a big rise in its profits. The news is likely to upset many of its 1.6m customers who currently have the largest water bills in the country and are facing a rise in the coming year. The Pennon Group, which owns SWW, made £131m in the last financial year - a rise in profits of more than 18%. The company's increased share price has led to takeover speculation, but it said the board was not aware of any particular reason for the rise. Operating profits for SWW lifted by 10.8% to £156.8m, while revenues rose by £33m to £381.5m, helped by price rises permitted in the current agreement with regulator Ofwat. In February it was announced average water and sewerage bills in the South West would rise by 16.1% for 2007 to 2008 for an unmetered property and 12.5% for a metered household. SWW's beach improving Clean Sweep programme has cost £1.5bn The average increase in England and Wales was 7%. In Devon, Cornwall and parts of Somerset and Dorset the hike means average customers paying annual charges of between £378 and £650. SWW said its increases were necessary to help pay for operation Clean Sweep to improve water quality around the region's coastline. The company said it continued to meet Ofwat's targets for leakage rates, with this year's level being the lowest level recorded. leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Water and sewage bills up by 7% 28 Feb bill anger as profits rise 30 Nov 06 | Cornwall MPs call for water charge changes 09 Nov 06 | Cornwall Woman pays twice in meter blunder 21 Jun 06 | Devon Pensioners in water bills protest 18 Apr 06 | Devon in profits for water company MP fined for disabled parking Waiting over for would-be buyers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6705957.stm debt judgments at 10-year high 30 May 2007, 18:26 GMT 19:26 debt judgments at 10-year high Credit debts lead to the majority of CCJs being issued The number of County Court Judgments (CCJs) against consumer debtors has reached its highest level in almost 10 years, figures show. Nearly 250,000 CCJs were issued in England and Wales in the first three months of 2007 - up 9.5% on the same period a year ago. Lenders were "increasingly using the court route to deal with unsecured debts", the Registry Trust said. Experts said the data also showed more households were struggling financially. The 247,187 CCJs issued for consumer debt is the highest since the summer of 1997 The total number of judgements issued - including those served on businesses - was 296,841, up 9.1%. About 70% of the consumer CCJs were directly linked to credit, according to an estimate by the Registry Trust, which collates the data. Organisations such as the HM Revenue & Customs and water firms issued many of the others, it said, as did the Swansea-based Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency which takes out CCJs for non-payment of road tax. Debtors not complying with the terms of judgements are put on a CCJ register for six years, making it more difficult for them to take out loans or mortgages. "The dominant trend is upwards in consumer judgments and this quarter's record numbers give a warning to unsecured borrowers that their credit ratings are at risk and further proceedings are only a step away," said Malcolm Thurlston of the Registry Trust. Throughout the 1990s, judgments declined as the economy improved and lenders turned away from the courts. The latest data also showed a 12% growth in the number of searches of CCJ registers. face 'lifetime of debts' Overdraft fees in dock The UK's debt footprint OFT wins credit card cover appeal Store cards 'need rate warning' ' Repossession' entries 14-15 ' Payment deadline' entries 16-18 'Race against time' entries 19-20 'Creditor offer' entries 21-23 'Final thoughts' entries 24-25 Your credit rating explained Q&A: How to manage debt Interest-free deals laid bare Adopting a budget plan Golden rules of debt Take the Debt Test and get help and advice if you are in trouble Take our Financial Healthcheck ASK THE EXPERT ON DEBT More on borrowing and debt
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6692559.stm wins second charges case 29 May 2007, 13:36 GMT 14:36 wins second charges case Lloyds TSB is still giving thousands of pounds to customers who sue Lloyds TSB has won a second county court case against a customer trying to reclaim overdraft charges. A case was dismissed by a judge at Lancaster county court on 11 May, four days before a ruling in Birmingham against a claim from Kevin Berwick. A builder from Lancaster, Julian Rudd, had tried to recoup £3,000 in overdraft charges and interest. Lloyds TSB did not turn up to argue its case, but the judge decided Mr Rudd had failed to state an adequate claim. Judge Forrester, who heard the case, said: "It is ordered that the particulars of claim are struck out as disclosing no reasonable grounds for bringing the claim set out as a coherent set of facts, which if true, disclose a legally recognisable claim against the defendant." Mr Rudd, who did not attend the hearing either, said afterwards that he thought his paperwork might have been inadequate. "I have a feeling that if we had reworded it, we might have had a shout," he said. The man who lost in Birmingham county court on 15 May, Kevin Berwick, has decided not to appeal against the decision, but to go to the Financial Ombudsman Service instead. A QC's opinion suggested that he had failed because he had not put forward some important evidence, such as the exact terms and conditions of his account with Lloyds TSB. As a result of the lack of this evidence, the QC advised that the rest of the case was not important and did not deal with any legal principle. As the rules for appeals in civil cases do not allow fresh evidence to be brought forward, Mr Berwick has been advised that there would be no benefit in appealing. Marc Gander of the Consumer Action Group said: "These cases, in Lancaster and Birmingham, show that people have to be more careful about their preparation." Despite these two victories for Lloyds TSB, some courts around the country are becoming more annoyed at the standard bank tactic of failing to turn up in court to defend a claim, even though a written defence has been submitted. The court... is considering striking out the defence as an abuse of process Judge Thomas, Rhyl county court It has come to light that a district judge at Rhyl county court in Denbighshire has written to Lloyds TSB telling it to submit, by 5 June, a list of all the cases it has taken to trial and all the ones it has settled. The order of Judge Thomas says that if it fails to do this, "the court... is considering striking out the defence as an abuse of process on the basis that the defendant has settled all previous claims of this nature." At Worcester county court, a judge recently told one bank charges claimant, David Huckerby, in whose favour he had just ruled, that this was the 50th time that a bank - also Lloyds TSB - had failed to turn up before him and he was now getting "thoroughly fed up". These are the latest among a growing number of judicial criticisms. In recent months, similar comments have been made by judges in Lincoln, Leeds, Bristol and even the Mercantile Court in London, a branch of the High Court. There, Judge Mackie openly accused some banks of behaving unreasonably, by procrastinating when customers tried to sue them for the return of overdraft charges. Even though Lloyds TSB is, so far, the only bank to win such a case in any court, it is still continuing to settle cases against it. The campaigning website Moneysavingexpert records 24 separate examples of the bank agreeing to demands for refunds. All have come since 15 May, when news of the Birmingham judgement was revealed exclusively by the BBC News website. A Lloyds TSB spokeswoman told the BBC on Tuesday: "We do settle some cases, because we don't like to see our customers in court." Moneysavingexpert also records four cases in which the Clydesdale/Yorkshire bank has settled claims out of court since 15 May, even though it is telling claimants that from now on, it will rely on the Birmingham judgement in its own defence. However, a spokesman for that bank refused to say whether or not it would now instruct its solicitors to turn up in court to argue its case in front of a judge, or merely continue to rely on a written defence, in the hope that this would be persuasive. CARD & BANK CHARGES Bank apology for charges letter Barrister fights Natwest charges Bank charge firms under spotlight Bank's overdraft charges upheld NI bank charges 'should be cut' Judge warns 'unreasonable' banks Judge attacks 'time-wasting' bank Bouncing a cheque may cost a bank less than £2. Was the bank victory an accident? The banks' guilty secret? 'No win no fee' moves in on banks How to reclaim bank charges In depth - borrowing and debt
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706819.stm chief executive at BHP named GMT 08:00 chief executive at BHP named Mr Kloppers will come under pressure to do deals, analysts say The world's largest miner, BHP Billiton, has named insider Marius Kloppers as its new chief executive. South African-born Mr Kloppers will take the helm on 1 October, replacing Chip Goodyear, who announced his retirement earlier in the year. With uncertainty over the future leadership of the Anglo-Australian firm resolved, analysts believe BHP could now be at the centre of a mega-merger. The announcement comes as profits continue to rise at the mining giant. In February, BHP said net profits during the second half of last year had jumped by 41% to $6bn thanks to strong demand for minerals, especially from China. A former management consultant, Mr Kloppers,44, joined Billiton in 1993 before the merger with BHP and was instrumental in the creation of the group's aluminium empire. He was most recently head of the group's most profitable nonferrous metals division, which includes aluminium, copper, tin and zinc. The inside appointment is seen by analysts as a sign of good succession planning within BHP and continuity, but also note the pressure he will be under to do deals amid a commodities boom that has triggered a rash of consolidation in the mining sector. Recent reports have suggested that BHP, which is based in Australia but is listed on the London stock market, might look to buy rival Rio Tinto or US aluminium miner Alcoa. announces 41% profit increase 07 Feb dethrones US metals king 09 Oct axes thousands to cut costs 23 Jun 05 | Business BHP output hit by copper strike 24 Oct Tinto uncovers record results 01 Feb Tinto's iron output rises 11% 18 Oct
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706411.stm to help exploited workers GMT 04:05 to help exploited workers Workers are encouraged to come forward with stories A commission has been launched to try to stamp out the "shocking" exploitation of vulnerable UK workers. Low pay, long hours and unsafe working conditions are among the issues to be addressed by the Commission on Vulnerable Employment. The group, which has been established by the TUC, wants to expose poor treatment and look at how staff can be protected by government and bosses. Workers who feel exploited are urged to come forward with their stories. Business leaders have joined the commission, which plans to talk to exploited workers, including migrants and those working at home. The TUC said that as many as one in five workers could experience poor pay and conditions. "Most people will have the odd grumble about their job, but are treated fairly most of the time," said TUC general secretary Brendan Barber. "But some workers still experience rank exploitation that Charles Dickens would recognise. "Most of the time their experience is hidden, but we have had a recent rash of shocking exposures of poor treatment." Among the business leaders on the commission are Serco chairman Kevin Beeston and Jaeger chief executive Belinda Earl. "The commission is important because there is a real lack of information about the most vulnerable workers in our society," Mr Beeston said. Ms Earl added: "I support the cause of improving the working conditions and rights of Britain's vulnerable workers and would like to play a part in making this goal a reality." the immigrant underclass 25 Apr 07 | UK Women 'form half of all migrants' 06 Sep 06 | World Migrant workers face new slavery 19 Mar 07 | England Migrant workers gain mobile banks 08 Mar 07 | Technology Migrant worker numbers 'unknown' 06 Mar 07 | Wales Commission on Vulnerable Employment
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6704699.stm advice on pension opt-outs 30 May 2007, 14:13 GMT 15:13 advice on pension opt-outs A new pamphlet from the FSA gives advice on opt outs The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has published fresh advice to people who may have made a mistake by opting out of the state second pension (S2P). It says people should complain if they think they were wrongly advised to opt out between 1988 and 1997, Earlier this year the FSA said it had found no evidence of systematic mis-selling of the opt-out pensions. But it concluded that 120,000 people might still have been the victims of poor advice to leave the S2P. At the time, the S2P was known as the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (Serps). It was the policy of the then Conservative government to encourage people to opt out of it, into an alternative personal pension, in order to give them greater choice and flexibility. The lure for people to do this was a rebate on their national insurance contributions, which was then invested into their new personal pension policies. Since then, the policy has become widely seen as a mistake, because of much lower-than-expected investment returns. But of the eight million or so people who have opted out at some time in their lives, very few, just 120,000, were making a potentially bad decision which the FSA now thinks should have been spotted at the time. The potential victims it is still worried about are those men who were over 45 at the time they contracted out, and those women who were over 40. They should have been identified as being too old, even then, to benefit from any extra investment potential of the new policies. However, the FSA says even they may, in some cases, have had valid reasons for still following the new policy. The FSA's pamphlet gives readers a guide on what they should do if they were above the relevant age limits, at any time between 1 July 1988 and 5 April 1997. It asks if they were not only above those ages, but were also advised to contract out, and were, in addition, unaware of any special reason for doing so. If they think they do fit these criteria, then they are advised to complain to the firm that gave them the advice and to ask for compensation. "If you were above the pivotal age, advice to contract out was likely to be wrong, unless there was a particular reason that outweighed the likely disadvantage," says the FSA. The average amount of pension that someone might have lost by opting out of the S2P is currently estimated at an average of £7 a week, though in reality some people may have lost nothing at all. However, the FSA warns that people will have no grounds for complaint if they took their own decision, without advice, or if they went ahead despite being advised not to do so. shut at police radio firm Ministers win fight over pensions Union backs BA pensions deal Tories call for pension lifeboat Brown defends pensions decision Brown protest by pension victims Q&A: You and your pension How the new pension plans will affect your retirement. How age affects your pension Pension crisis in figures Pensions White Paper in full Can you defend your scheme? Who pays for our pensions? Q&A: A-Day pension reforms Q&A: Final salary schemes Q&A: Basic state pension Take our Financial Healthcheck ASK THE EXPERT: PENSIONS sites
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/default.stm 4's PM programme GMT 17:09 UK US economy grew at a pace of 0.6% in the first quarter of 2007, its weakest rate in more than four years. US inflation still worrying Fed US consumer confidence up signs will allow the website's users to use music videos by EMI artists. number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. OTHER TOP BUSINESS STORIES Premiership wages 'to top £1bn' Apple TV to show YouTube Top bankers warn of risky loans Rate rise 'to cool house market' ALSO IN THE NEWS Malaysia seeks new Irish sniffer dogs to root out pirate DVDs MARKET DATA - 17:12 UK Does spending $100m on climate change make a bank green? food supplier follows Korean multinationals into Slovakia VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Waiting over for home buyers in Exeter Dell to sell 'in Wal-Mart' Premiership 'richest in world' China shares hit by tax rise More Video / Audio News Wake Up To Money Russia denies foreign energy bias Motorola unveils 4,000 job cuts Newcastle consider Ashley offer Alliance Boots takeover approved Lord Black prosecutors rest case Ryanair buys new Boeing planes Google privacy policy 'is vague' Cold forces Argentine energy cuts Warning as Eurotunnel shares rise Debt judgments at 10-year-high eBay buys recommendations site Surprise rise in German jobless Manufacturing lifts Indian growth Group to help exploited workers House prices 'still accelerating' Lloyds wins second charges case New advice on pension opt-outs World Bank chief nominated Chinese shares claw back losses US inflation still worrying Fed Philippine growth at 17-year high New chief executive at BHP Rise in profits for water company Australian property firm bought WPP pays libel bill Microsoft unveils table computer New owners reopen MG Rover plant Vancouver is 'best place to live' Mastercard World Cup deal wobbles Eurotunnel 'saved' by investors Guidelines for financial journalists European drug advertising row flares up again There IS a way to cut airports' CO2, but you are not going to like it Economist Jeffrey Sachs on today's global challenges Mortgages - a basic guide Dealing with estate agents More guides and information Reading your local housing Coping with rate moves Bank or Building Society? More guides and information How can I manage my debt? Do I qualify for credit? Store cards: pros and cons Finding the right loan When the bailiffs come Dealing with debt collector More guides and information Introduction to income tax Capital gains & inheritance Value Added Tax explained Why wills are important Coping with tax increases More guides and information Tips for self assessment How to write a CV Asking for a pay rise How to de-stress the office Home working pros and cons Time for a career change More guides and information More guides and information Simplification of the pensi BENEFITS & TAX CREDITS More guides and information Writing a business plan Choosing the best software How to best get noticed How much tax to pay ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6705251.stm wages 'to top £1bn' 30 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 wages 'to top £1bn' Hands up if you get well paid.... Chelsea has the highest wage bill Premier League wages are set to break the £1bn barrier for the first time in the competition's history, a report from Deloitte has said. Salaries and bonuses will increase next season as a £1.7bn television deal for top-flight games comes into effect, the report says. Deloitte's annual review of football finances showed Premier League wages rose 9% to £854m in 2005/06. Chelsea's outlay totalled £114m while four other clubs paid more than £50m. The new TV revenue - including domestic and international rights - equates to about £300m extra per season over the lifetime of the current three-year deal. Whilst wages will rise, clubs do have the opportunity to increase the importance of performance related pay structures Sport Business Group, Deloitte However, Deloitte said the wave of new owners at clubs, including Aston Villa and Liverpool, was likely to result in more restraint in spending, with servicing debt and investing in stadia being other key priorities. "A lot of these new owners have had sporting success but also considerable financial success", said director of Deloitte's Sports Business group, Alan Switzer. "A decent chunk of the money will still flow through to the players, but we don't think it will be the same proportion that flowed through previously." JUST FANCY THAT! - STATS FROM THE 2005/06 SEASON Four Championship teams paid more in wages than they made in revenue Premier League and Football League clubs paid about £50m in agents fees France's Ligue 1 made a profit for the first time since 2000 English professional football paid about £650m in taxes Chelsea's pre-tax losses fell from £140m to £80m While spending on transfers is set to exceed £300m this summer, Deloitte's Paul Rawnsley said it was not viable for clubs to simply throw money at players. "Whilst wages will rise, clubs do have the opportunity to increase the importance of performance related pay structures," he said. "This will both insulate the business in future when on-pitch results are not so good, and also help motivate and reward players and management for winning." The report confirmed that the Premiership was once again the top-earning league in the world. Its 20 clubs generated £1.4bn in turnover on 2005/06, a figure expected to rise to £1.8bn in 2007/8. And the report pointed out that the increased revenue - alongside cost controls - should almost double combined operating profits to £260m next season. Manchester United was once again top of the English revenue league, making £167.7m. The club was followed by Chelsea on £152.8m, Arsenal on £133m and Liverpool on £121.6m. PREMIER LEAGUE'S TOP WAGE BILLS 2005/06 Manchester Utd - £85m Newcastle Utd - £52m Arsenal's revenue is expected to have soared in 2006/07, with its income from gate receipts and corporate hospitality boosted by its first season in the 60,000-capacity Emirates Stadium. Only nine Premiership clubs, however, actually made a pre-tax profit - down from 14 in 2004/05. Click here to see the wages of the Big Five leagues Wages paid to players in England again outstripped their European counterparts. The total wage bill in Italy, the second biggest in Europe, was 35% below the English level at 806m euros (£548m) while clubs in the much-admired Spanish La Liga shelled out 739m euros (£502m) to their stars. Should TV money be used to subsidise ticket prices? Although Italy was also the second highest earning league in Europe, falling matchday revenue was likely to see it slip behind Germany and Spain in the 2006/07 report. The "big five" European leagues generated 53% of the total £8.6bn European football market. Revenue generated by clubs in the Championship - the second tier in England - grew 4% to £312m, reaffirming it as Europe's sixth biggest league. Top league revenues 05/06 Last month Deloitte said promotion from the Championship to the Premiership this season would be worth about £60m for the successful clubs - Sunderland, Birmingham and Derby County. And the report highlighted the financial chasm between the two divisions. The gap between revenue at the average Premier League club and Championship side hit a record £56m in 2005/06 and was tipped to grow to £70m next season. Click here to return AND AUDIO NEWS How fortunes have changed in world football Premiership entry 'is worth £60m' 02 Utd drops down wealth league 08 Feb cash fear for English football clubs 11 Jan fall in Premiership wages 01 Jun Sports Business Group
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6708727.stm bankers warn of risky loans GMT 15:58 bankers warn of risky loans Mr Rhodes says the surge in liquidity is the greatest he has seen Top bankers have warned that many lenders are letting their standards slip and making imprudent loans. "Lenders all too often, are setting aside key documentation and credit standards," said William Rhodes, senior vice chairman of Citigroup. Members of the Institute of Internat- ional Finance (IIF) warned that banks who loosen their standards could regret it when the upswing has run its course. The IIF is an organisation of 360 financial institutions. It says that there is great pressure to lend money when interest rates are low and so money is relatively cheap. "As liquidity has continued to be high and the deal flow has accelerated we have seen a lowering of lending and investing standards in some markets," said Josef Ackermann from Deutsche Bank. Mr Rhodes said that while there has nor been such a sustained period of global economic growth since before World War I, all upswings eventually run their course. rise 'will squeeze borrowers' 10 How much money should you borrow? 27 Apr plays down lending risk 15 Mar grow for first-time buyers 20 Nov offer: Groundbreaking or gimmick? 01 Nov Nov of International Finance
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/football/teams/n/newcastle_united/6693039.stm BBC SPORT | Football | My Club | Newcastle United | Newcastle consider Ashley offer GMT 15:19 consider Ashley offer Ashley purchased the Hall family's stake for £55m Newcastle's board are to "consider" an offer from Mike Ashley following discussions with the billionaire businessman on Thursday. United's board had previously made it clear they required more detail regarding Ashley's offer. That followed his acquisition of Sir John Hall's 41.6% stake. And earlier this month, Hall told BBC Radio Newcastle: "I feel Ashley and his team are right. He will take us to a new dimension." Sir John Hall on BBC Radio Newcastle Hall added: "I'm certain he'll be good for the club or I wouldn't have sold to him." Ashley purchased the Hall family's stake for £55m with the ultimate aim of clinching a complete £133.1m buy-out of chairman Freddy Shepherd and the remaining shareholders. We probably ran out of ideas a bit. There's no room for old men. I've got a lot of experience but it's a young man's game Shepherd, who has a 29.8% stake in the club, is thought to be shocked by recent events, but Hall has backed Ashley - who made his fortune through sportswear firm Sports World. "He knows the passion of the fans, he knows how much it means on Tyneside," Hall said. "I've talked to him enough to be assured they've got the passion for the club as we all have. "You can't run a club without being attached to it. You can't run a club without feeling for it because it is about people, it's about the passion of the people. "He knows the supporters are passionate." Shepherd and the Newcastle board are due to meet shortly to consider Ashley's offer of 100p per share. Ashley needs a 50% share to take control of the club, including who sits on the board That means Shepherd could lose control of the club even if he does not sell his 29% stake Ashley needs Shepherd's shares in order to reach the 75% required to delist the club from the Stock Exchange If Ashley manages to buy more than 50% of shares, he will have day-to-day control of the club and if he gets to 75%, he will be able to delist the club from the Stock Exchange. Hall will remain involved at St James' Park as life president but admitted the time was right for him to step aside. He said: "I think I've done the best thing but one can never tell. I'm 74 now and for some time I've felt the family need to take a new direction. "It's been known we've wanted to sell our shares and move on to other things. "We probably ran out of ideas a bit. You've got to make changes every now and again. "There's no room for old men. I've got a lot of experience but it's a young man's game." Shepherd shocked by Newcastle bid 24 United The two-man tussle for Newcastle United 24 get £133m buyout offer 23 name Allardyce as boss 15 United Roeder resigns as Newcastle boss 06 United Allardyce resigns as Bolton boss 29 Apr 07 | Bolton Wanderers Football on the BBC BBC Tyne Newcastle audio Newcastle fans' views on 606 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706107.stm inflation still worrying Fed 30 May 2007, 20:05 GMT 21:05 inflation still worrying Fed Fed chief Ben Bernanke has left the possibility of rate rises open The US Federal Reserve continues to sees inflation as the "predominant concern" for the economy, minutes from its latest rate-setting meeting show. The Fed left interest rates unchanged at 5.25% on May 9, and many analysts say the inflation worries mean it will keep rates steady for some time. In its minutes, the Fed added that the housing market downturn had been more severe than expected. But it said the risk of the US economy slowing abruptly had lessened. "Nearly all participants viewed core inflation as remaining uncomfortably high and stressed the importance of further moderation," the minutes said. The slump in the housing market - and problems in the sub-prime lending market - has slowed US growth in recent months. And the Fed expressed concern that this could be exacerbated if the fall in house prices left consumers less willing to spend. "The correction of the housing sector is likely to continue to weigh heavily on economic activity through most of this year, somewhat longer than previously expected," the Fed said. This stance "contradicts" its public stance on the economy, said Andy Brenner of Man Financial. "It believes that housing will weigh on the market longer than anticipated." And Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at New York-based Johnson Ellington Advisors, said: "The implication is the economy may not turn out to be as good as forecast." "Their worries about growth are starting to pick up, and that certainly is appropriate," he added. approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6708075.stm buys 27 new Boeing planes 31 May 2007, 12:56 GMT 13:56 UK buys 27 new Boeing planes Passenger growth is expected to boost Ryanair results out next week Budget airline Ryanair has signed a deal to buy 27 737-800 planes from Boeing worth a possible $1.9bn (£960m). The aircraft will be delivered between 2009 and 2010, increasing the Irish carrier's total fleet to 262 by 2012. Ryanair said the planes would be fitted with technology to reduce fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary has said in the past that "the recent hysteria" over the impact of flying on climate change is "misguided and misplaced". Mr O' Leary says aviation accounts for less than 1.6% of greenhouse gas emissions. In buying the environmentally-friendly 737-800, the group said it was "strengthening Ryanair's position as Europe's cheapest, greenest and cleanest airline". "Ryanair guarantees passengers that they will not find a cheaper fare with any other airline on any of its 487 routes," added Ryanair's chief financial officer Howard Millar. "The combination of the lowest per seat operating cost and the reliability of these Boeing 737 800s will benefit millions of additional passengers in the coming five years as we extend our route network and our guaranteed lowest fares." The fast-expanding no-frills airline, which is due to report its annual results next week, is waiting for the conclusion of a European Union investigation into whether its proposed takeover of rival Aer Lingus would hamper competition in the airline industry. AND AUDIO NEWS Ryanair's boss explains the firm's green credentials Ryanair threatens to sack pilots 07 Feb 07 | UK Ryanair sees profits soar by 30% 05 Feb tax increase comes into force 01 Feb Lingus rejects Ryanair's bid 03 Nov 06 | Business Minister renews airline criticism 05 Jan 07 | Politics From no-frills to flag carrier 05 Oct 06 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706797.stm unveils 4,000 job cuts 31 May 2007, 05:24 GMT 06:24 UK unveils 4,000 job cuts Analysts say Motorola needs a better range of phones Motorola has announced plans to shed an additional 4,000 jobs this year, as it continues efforts to reduce costs and reverse a fall in profits. The world's second largest mobile phone-maker, US-based Motorola was already on target to complete 3,500 job reductions by the end of June. It forecasts the combined job losses and other cost-cutting moves will save the firm $600m (£304m) a year. Motorola has been losing market share to rivals amid tough price competition. Mobile phone analyst Lawrence Harris said Motorola was also handicapped by a weak range of phones. "The extra job cuts will certainly help them return to profitability but it's not enough to get them to the double digit profit margins they seek," he said. "They need exciting new products." Back in January, Motorola announced that its fourth quarter profits fell 48% to $624m. raises pressure on Motorola 01 May to go in Motorola jobs cull 19 Jan alert prompts stock fall 05 Jan results hit Motorola shares 18 Oct 06 | Business Motorola in India contract battle 10 Oct 06 | Business Motorola buys barcode scan firm 19 Sep 06 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707209.stm growth at 17-year high 31 May 2007, 08:49 GMT 09:49 UK growth at 17-year high President Gloria Arroyo was delighted with the figures The Philippine economy grew at its fastest rate in 17 years in the first three months of 2007, boosted by all major economic sectors. Official figures showed that the economy expanded at an annual rate of 6.9% during the first quarter, way above market expectations, The service sector led the rise, growing by 9%, followed by industry, up 5%, and agriculture, which grew by 4%. "The Philippines is on a roll," said President Gloria Arroyo. mars Philippine count 15 May 07 | Asia-Pacific 14 May 07 | Country profiles Country profile: The Philippines 28 Mar 07 | Country profiles economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706849.stm rise 'to cool house market' 31 May 2007, 08:03 GMT 09:03 UK rise 'to cool house market' Nationwide warned buyers not to over-stretch themselves The latest rise in UK rates is set to cool housing activity, the Nationwide has said, although annual price growth remained "resilient" during May. Nationwide's latest survey said annual house price inflation stood at 10.3% in May after a 0.5% increase in the month. But the high inflation figure was mainly down to slower price growth a year ago, the building society said. It added the underlying trend was still slowing and warned buyers not to over-stretch themselves financially. "Higher interest rates, with the threat of more on the horizon, should signal caution to those thinking about stretching themselves to get a foot on the ladder," the society said. The price of an average house now stands at £181,584, Nationwide said. Earlier this month, the Bank of England raised UK interest rates by a quarter of a percentage point to 5.5% - the fourth rate rise since August last year. The Nationwide said this latest rise would cool both activity and price growth in the housing market. The 0.5% rise in house prices during May was down from April's increase of 0.9%. Meanwhile, the three-month on three-month growth rate - which is often seen as a good indicator of underlying trends - fell to 1.8% in May, its lowest level since August 2006. Nationwide said that it expected a further rise in interest rates to 5.75% later this year as the Bank of England sought to counter inflationary pressures. While higher rates "clearly present risks" to the housing market, Nationwide added that the sector should see a "measured cooling" as long as the economy remained in good shape. Nationwide said that the underlying picture for prices was showing "a clear downward trend as the effect of earlier increases in interest rates takes hold". Recently, there has been a drop-off in mortgage approvals and inquiries from new buyers to estate agents. But so far both the Nationwide survey, and those of other market commentators, have continued to show prices rising steadily with little obvious sign of a slowdown in the pace of increase. On Wednesday, the latest monthly survey from the English and Welsh Land Registry said prices rose twice as fast in April as they did a year ago. Analysts said that the lack of properties for sale would continue to support prices. "Despite slowing demand, house prices still seem likely to lose buoyancy only gradually as a general shortage of property means that pricing power is currently still in favour of the vendor," said Howard Archer, chief UK and European economist at Global Insight. "This is particularly true in London and the South East, where prices are being fuelled by elevated City bonuses and strong foreign demand, as well as an acute shortage of supply." home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6706979.stm lifts Indian growth 31 May 2007, 07:17 GMT 08:17 UK lifts Indian growth Manufacturing, including the car sector, is fuelling the economy The Indian economy grew at an annual rate of 9.1% in the first three months of this year, driven by the strong manufacturing and service sectors. The economic growth was less than market expectations of a 9.4% expansion, but higher than the 8.7% recorded in the last quarter of 2006. Analysts now expect growth to slow slightly over the next year as the government aims to prevent overheating. Manufacturing and services both grew by 12.4% in the first quarter of 2007. Meanwhile, the construction industry expanded by 11.2%, while farming grew by just 3.8%. "The growth rate is clearly impressive and is a very good performance," said HSBC economist Robert Prior-Wandesforde. "But going forward there may be a softening in the growth cycle due to a recent spate of monetary tightening measures. "We expect 2007/08 growth at 7.8%." In March, India's central bank raised interest rates to 7.75% from 7.5%, its highest level in almost four-and-a-half years. It was the second rate rise in three months as the bank sought to rein in inflation fuelled by the fast-growing economy. PM seeks farm sector boost 29 May 07 | South Asia Winners and losers as India booms 21 May devour Indian traders 21 May 07 | South Asia What is holding India's economy back 17 May 07 | South Asia Foreign investors face Indian barriers 08 May eyes 25 million automotive jobs 30 Apr economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706843.stm property firm bought 31 May 2007, 06:08 GMT 07:08 UK property firm bought Investa's property assets total A$7bn Australian property group Investa has agreed to be bought by US banking giant Morgan Stanley for 4.7bn Australian dollars ($3.9bn; £2bn). If approved by shareholders, it will be the largest purchase of an Australian property company by an overseas firm. The offer is a 14% premium over the Australian firm's Wednesday closing share price. Morgan Stanley said the deal was part of its strategy to increase its real estate presence in Australia. Investa has about A$7bn of commercial and residential assets. The firm's shares have risen 50% over the past year on the back of takeover speculation. Stanley to sell Discover 19 Dec 06 | Business Morgan Stanley sees profits slump 21 Sep 05 | Business Morgan Stanley - Real Estate economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707515.stm Black prosecutors rest case 31 May 2007, 10:51 GMT 11:51 UK Black prosecutors rest case Lord Black faces a possible 101 year jail sentence Prosecutors at the Lord Black criminal trial have rested their case against the media mogul after 11 weeks of evidence in a Chicago court room. It is now up to his defence team to convince the jury he did not steal $60m (£30.4m) from Hollinger International. Without explanation, prosecutors have also dropped a single count of money laundering against Lord Black. He still faces 13 other charges including fraud and tax evasion, all of which he denies. In total he is now charged with nine counts of fraud, one of obstruction of justice, one of racketeering or running an organised crime, and two of tax evasion. If found guilty on all counts, Lord Black, 62, faces a jail sentence of up to 101 years. Nine counts of fraud One of obstruction of justice Two of tax evasion Federal prosecutors allege Lord Black Fraudulently received non-compete fees from the sale of Hollinger assets Deprived the company of his honest services Repeatedly benefited himself at the expense of the company and its public shareholders through the abuse of company perks Other executives on trial John Boultbee - former chief financial officer Peter Atkinson - former general counsel Mark Kipnis - former corporate counsel and secretary His three co-defendants, all former executives at newspaper firm Hollinger, face lesser charges. Lord Black and the three others are accused of enriching themselves at the expense of shareholders by pocketing payments made during the sale of hundreds of Hollinger's community newspapers. Lord Black is also accused of abusing corporate perks, such as using the company jet for personal reasons, and spending company funds on everything from a luxury Manhattan apartment to lavish birthday parties for his wife Barbara Amiel. The jury is expected to begin its deliberations in late June. Canadian-born Lord Black became a British citizen in 2001, enabling him to become a member of the House of Lords. Through Hollinger he took control of a number of well-known newspapers including the Daily Telegraph and Chicago Sun-Times. The Daily Telegraph has since been sold, and Hollinger has been renamed Sun-Times Media. 'called on Trump for help' 23 May aide tells of 'partnership' 08 May witness set for Black trial 07 May claim opens Lord Black trial 20 Mar Conrad Black is in the dock 13 Mar fall of Conrad Black 13 Mar economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707261.stm rise in German jobless 31 May 2007, 09:24 GMT 10:24 UK rise in German jobless Strong economic growth has seen unemployment fall for 13 months The German unemployment total unexpectedly rose in May, breaking a run of 13 consecutive monthly falls. The adjusted jobless total increased to 3.855 million in May, up 3,000 on the previous month. The unemployment rate was unchanged at 9.2%, according to official figures from the Federal Labour Office. But economists said the rise in May was probably just a blip and that the jobless total would probably continue falling in the coming months. "It is not a major problem, just a temporary effect," said Ulrike Kastens at Sal. Oppenheim bank. Of more concern was the 4,000 fall in the number of vacancies to 601,000 in adjusted terms. "There is a slight worry in that job vacancies fell again, perhaps a further sign that the employment boom may be losing momentum," said David Brown at Bear Stearns International. "This is something that the European Central Bank must pay very careful attention to, a reminder that it cannot keep raising rates with impunity," he added. jobless dips below 4m mark 01 May 07 | Europe German growth hits six-year high 11 Jan business confidence soars 19 Dec 06 | Business German trade surplus hits record 08 Dec 06 | Business German jobless at four-year low 30 Nov 06 | Business Germans still upbeat on economy 23 Nov 06 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6701865.stm nominates new World Bank chief 30 May 2007, 15:47 GMT 16:47 UK nominates new World Bank chief US President George W Bush has nominated Robert Zoellick, former deputy secretary of state, to be president of the World Bank. His nomination will be considered by the World Bank's 24-member board of governors, although the US nomination has always been accepted in the past. Mr Zoellick would replace Paul Wolfowitz, who steps down on 30 June. Some members have called for candidates from outside the United States to be considered for the job. Accepting the nomination, Mr Zoellick acknowledged that he had much work to do to deal with the tensions which unseated his predecessor. "We need to put yesterday's discord behind us and focus on the future together," he said. President Bush said of Mr Zoellick: "He has earned the trust and support of leaders from every region of the world." "He is deeply devoted to the mission of the World Bank," he added. He has to establish or rather re-establish confidence in the institution because it was a dark chapter with Wolfowitz Bernard Kouchner, French Foreign Minister Challenges facing new boss Choosing a World Bank boss As deputy secretary of state, Mr Zoellick was chief aide to Condoleezza Rice between February 2005 and June last year. He is also an ex-US trade representative and is currently an executive at the investment bank Goldman Sachs. Mr Zoellick's choice was praised by the new French government. "Mr. Zoellick is certainly the right man for the job," French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said. But he added: "He has to establish or rather re-establish confidence in the institution because it was a dark chapter with Wolfowitz." But Paul Zeitz, executive director of the Global AIDS Alliance, said that he thought Mr Zoellick was a terrible choice. President Bush said Mr Zoellick had built trust in all his top-level jobs "Zoellick has no significant experience in economic development in poor countries," he said. "He has been a close friend to the brand-name pharmaceutical industry, and the bilateral trade agreements he has negotiated effectively block access to generic medication for millions of people." President Bush also used his nomination speech to pay tribute to Paul Wolfowitz. "I thank him for his dedication to the poor and his devotion to the good work of the World Bank," he said. "Bob Zoellick is the right man to succeed Paul in this vital work." AND AUDIO NEWS President Bush and Robert Zoellick at a news conference New World Bank boss chosen Wolfowitz blames media for exit Bush wants American successor World Bank head Wolfowitz to quit Wolfowitz crunch talks continue White House stands by Wolfowitz Wolfowitz 'broke World Bank laws' Wolfowitz was brought down by his own actions, says the BBC's Paul Reynolds. The World Bank after Wolfowitz Profile: IMF and World Bank What the World Bank does economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6703523.stm prices 'still accelerating' 30 May 2007, 11:41 GMT 12:41 UK prices 'still accelerating' House price rises in Brighton & Hove are matching those in London Brighton & Hove has joined Greater London as the place in England and Wales where house prices are rising fastest, says the Land Registry. Property prices went up by 15.6% in both those areas in the year to April. In England and Wales prices rose by 9.1% on average, faster than the property inflation rate of 8.3% recorded in March. The average home in England and Wales now costs £179,935 - £15,003 more than a year ago. However David Stubbs, of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, predicted the market would cool off. "The acceleration in price growth reflects the strength of the market in previous months but does not signal further strength in the future," he said. "Price rises will moderate as the year progresses." According to the Land Registry, prices are now rising more than twice as fast as they were a year ago. "In April 2006, the annual price change was 4.1%, less than half the 9.1% annual price change in April 2007," it said. The latest figures from the Land Registry lag only slightly behind other house price surveys, for instance those from mortgage lenders such as the Nationwide and the Halifax. These have both suggested recently that house price inflation has been running in double figures. The registry says overall prices are being driven by the market in London, where the cost of buying a home has been rising much faster than in England and Wales as a whole. As a result, the average London home, at £333,785, now costs nearly £154,000 more than the average for England and Wales. The area where prices have risen least in the past year is Nottingham. There they have gone up by just 1%, leaving the cost of an average property at £101,810. home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707711.stm as Eurotunnel shares rise 31 May 2007, 12:35 GMT 13:35 UK as Eurotunnel shares rise Paris stock market regulator AMF has issued a rare warning to brokers taking orders for Eurotunnel shares after a sharp rise in the firm's market price. The watchdog warned such orders were irrevocable and brokers should check clients have enough money to buy stock. The warning suggests AMF fears the soaring share price may leave some investors unable to pay for shares they buy or deliver shares they have sold. Eurotunnel shares have almost tripled since resuming trading on Tuesday. Eurotunnel shares rose 92% in Paris on Tuesday and another 90% on Wednesday. Thirteen percent of Eurotunnel shares began trading on Tuesday after holders of the other 87% agreed a reorganisation plan for the company, which will cut its debt from £6bn (8.9bn euros) to £2.84bn. The Anglo-French firm had faced bankruptcy unless its plans were backed by at least 50% of shareholders. Under the plans the majority of shareholders agreed to exchange their old Eurotunnel shares for the new Groupe Eurotunnel shares, which will not make their stock market debut until next month. As a result, the only Eurotunnel shares to benefit from the firm averting bankruptcy will be the 13% still trading on the Paris bourse - in other words those owned by investors who rejected the reorganisation plan. 'saved' by investors 25 May for Eurotunnel debt plans 21 May investors in perks row 02 Apr in mixed market return 27 Mar sees 2006 loss narrow 07 Mar wins Sangatte payout 26 Feb economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707153.stm shares claw back losses 31 May 2007, 09:00 GMT 10:00 UK shares claw back losses The central bank wants a market where big firms play a central role Chinese shares closed higher, despite a weak opening, following Wednesday's tripling of share trading tax. Chinese authorities decided to increase the tax from 0.1% to 0.3% in an attempt to clamp down on speculative trading. The Shanghai Composite Index closed 56.57 points or 1.4% higher at 4,109.65 having earlier dropped below 4,000. Larger companies led the rises after comments from the central bank were taken to mean that they might be less affected by the clamp down. A report from the central bank said it wanted to develop a stock market where larger companies, known as blue chips, played a leading role. Pudong Development Bank rose to its 10% daily limit, as did the oil refining giant Sinopec. Societe Generale showed confidence in the Chinese market by applying to double the amount it is allowed to invest in it. Pascal Sefrin, general manager of the French bank's Shanghai branch, said it had used up its initial quota under the Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor programme. "Our quota at present is $50m (£25.3m) and we are applying to double it," he said. China's economic liberalisation forged a new Shanghai Taking on the multinationals Banking on China's boom Cracking China's car market The changing face of outsourcing Rivals chase GM at auto show China's new economic frontier How globalisation is driving change across the world economy Globalisation shakes the world Has outsourcing changed the world? economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6707853.stm | Devon | Rise in profits for water company 31 May 2007, 12:03 GMT 13:03 UK in profits for water company The rise in bills was almost double the average for the country South West Water (SWW) has announced a big rise in its profits. The news is likely to upset many of its 1.6m customers who currently have the largest water bills in the country and are facing a rise in the coming year. The Pennon Group, which owns SWW, made £131m in the last financial year - a rise in profits of more than 18%. The company's increased share price has led to takeover speculation, but it said the board was not aware of any particular reason for the rise. Operating profits for SWW lifted by 10.8% to £156.8m, while revenues rose by £33m to £381.5m, helped by price rises permitted in the current agreement with regulator Ofwat. In February it was announced average water and sewerage bills in the South West would rise by 16.1% for 2007 to 2008 for an unmetered property and 12.5% for a metered household. SWW's beach improving Clean Sweep programme has cost £1.5bn The average increase in England and Wales was 7%. In Devon, Cornwall and parts of Somerset and Dorset the hike means average customers paying annual charges of between £378 and £650. SWW said its increases were necessary to help pay for operation Clean Sweep to improve water quality around the region's coastline. The company said it continued to meet Ofwat's targets for leakage rates, with this year's level being the lowest level recorded. leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Water and sewage bills up by 7% 28 Feb bill anger as profits rise 30 Nov 06 | Cornwall MPs call for water charge changes 09 Nov 06 | Cornwall Woman pays twice in meter blunder 21 Jun 06 | Devon Pensioners in water bills protest 18 Apr 06 | Devon in profits for water company MP fined for disabled parking Waiting over for would-be buyers Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6705957.stm debt judgments at 10-year high 30 May 2007, 18:26 GMT 19:26 UK debt judgments at 10-year high Credit debts lead to the majority of CCJs being issued The number of County Court Judgments (CCJs) against consumer debtors has reached its highest level in almost 10 years, figures show. Nearly 250,000 CCJs were issued in England and Wales in the first three months of 2007 - up 9.5% on the same period a year ago. Lenders were "increasingly using the court route to deal with unsecured debts", the Registry Trust said. Experts said the data also showed more households were struggling financially. The 247,187 CCJs issued for consumer debt is the highest since the summer of 1997 The total number of judgements issued - including those served on businesses - was 296,841, up 9.1%. About 70% of the consumer CCJs were directly linked to credit, according to an estimate by the Registry Trust, which collates the data. Organisations such as the HM Revenue & Customs and water firms issued many of the others, it said, as did the Swansea-based Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency which takes out CCJs for non-payment of road tax. Debtors not complying with the terms of judgements are put on a CCJ register for six years, making it more difficult for them to take out loans or mortgages. "The dominant trend is upwards in consumer judgments and this quarter's record numbers give a warning to unsecured borrowers that their credit ratings are at risk and further proceedings are only a step away," said Malcolm Thurlston of the Registry Trust. Throughout the 1990s, judgments declined as the economy improved and lenders turned away from the courts. The latest data also showed a 12% growth in the number of searches of CCJ registers. face 'lifetime of debts' Overdraft fees in dock The UK's debt footprint OFT wins credit card cover appeal Store cards 'need rate warning' ' Repossession' entries 14-15 ' Payment deadline' entries 16-18 'Race against time' entries 19-20 'Creditor offer' entries 21-23 'Final thoughts' entries 24-25 Your credit rating explained Q&A: How to manage debt Interest-free deals laid bare Adopting a budget plan Golden rules of debt Take the Debt Test and get help and advice if you are in trouble Take our Financial Healthcheck ASK THE EXPERT ON DEBT More on borrowing and debt economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6692559.stm wins second charges case 29 May 2007, 13:36 GMT 14:36 UK wins second charges case Lloyds TSB is still giving thousands of pounds to customers who sue Lloyds TSB has won a second county court case against a customer trying to reclaim overdraft charges. A case was dismissed by a judge at Lancaster county court on 11 May, four days before a ruling in Birmingham against a claim from Kevin Berwick. A builder from Lancaster, Julian Rudd, had tried to recoup £3,000 in overdraft charges and interest. Lloyds TSB did not turn up to argue its case, but the judge decided Mr Rudd had failed to state an adequate claim. Judge Forrester, who heard the case, said: "It is ordered that the particulars of claim are struck out as disclosing no reasonable grounds for bringing the claim set out as a coherent set of facts, which if true, disclose a legally recognisable claim against the defendant." Mr Rudd, who did not attend the hearing either, said afterwards that he thought his paperwork might have been inadequate. "I have a feeling that if we had reworded it, we might have had a shout," he said. The man who lost in Birmingham county court on 15 May, Kevin Berwick, has decided not to appeal against the decision, but to go to the Financial Ombudsman Service instead. A QC's opinion suggested that he had failed because he had not put forward some important evidence, such as the exact terms and conditions of his account with Lloyds TSB. As a result of the lack of this evidence, the QC advised that the rest of the case was not important and did not deal with any legal principle. As the rules for appeals in civil cases do not allow fresh evidence to be brought forward, Mr Berwick has been advised that there would be no benefit in appealing. Marc Gander of the Consumer Action Group said: "These cases, in Lancaster and Birmingham, show that people have to be more careful about their preparation." Despite these two victories for Lloyds TSB, some courts around the country are becoming more annoyed at the standard bank tactic of failing to turn up in court to defend a claim, even though a written defence has been submitted. The court... is considering striking out the defence as an abuse of process Judge Thomas, Rhyl county court It has come to light that a district judge at Rhyl county court in Denbighshire has written to Lloyds TSB telling it to submit, by 5 June, a list of all the cases it has taken to trial and all the ones it has settled. The order of Judge Thomas says that if it fails to do this, "the court... is considering striking out the defence as an abuse of process on the basis that the defendant has settled all previous claims of this nature." At Worcester county court, a judge recently told one bank charges claimant, David Huckerby, in whose favour he had just ruled, that this was the 50th time that a bank - also Lloyds TSB - had failed to turn up before him and he was now getting "thoroughly fed up". These are the latest among a growing number of judicial criticisms. In recent months, similar comments have been made by judges in Lincoln, Leeds, Bristol and even the Mercantile Court in London, a branch of the High Court. There, Judge Mackie openly accused some banks of behaving unreasonably, by procrastinating when customers tried to sue them for the return of overdraft charges. Even though Lloyds TSB is, so far, the only bank to win such a case in any court, it is still continuing to settle cases against it. The campaigning website Moneysavingexpert records 24 separate examples of the bank agreeing to demands for refunds. All have come since 15 May, when news of the Birmingham judgement was revealed exclusively by the BBC News website. A Lloyds TSB spokeswoman told the BBC on Tuesday: "We do settle some cases, because we don't like to see our customers in court." Moneysavingexpert also records four cases in which the Clydesdale/Yorkshire bank has settled claims out of court since 15 May, even though it is telling claimants that from now on, it will rely on the Birmingham judgement in its own defence. However, a spokesman for that bank refused to say whether or not it would now instruct its solicitors to turn up in court to argue its case in front of a judge, or merely continue to rely on a written defence, in the hope that this would be persuasive. CARD & BANK CHARGES Bank apology for charges letter Barrister fights Natwest charges Bank charge firms under spotlight Bank's overdraft charges upheld NI bank charges 'should be cut' Judge warns 'unreasonable' banks Judge attacks 'time-wasting' bank Bouncing a cheque may cost a bank less than £2. Was the bank victory an accident? The banks' guilty secret? 'No win no fee' moves in on banks How to reclaim bank charges In depth - borrowing and debt economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706819.stm chief executive at BHP named 31 May 2007, 07:00 GMT 08:00 UK chief executive at BHP named Mr Kloppers will come under pressure to do deals, analysts say The world's largest miner, BHP Billiton, has named insider Marius Kloppers as its new chief executive. South African-born Mr Kloppers will take the helm on 1 October, replacing Chip Goodyear, who announced his retirement earlier in the year. With uncertainty over the future leadership of the Anglo-Australian firm resolved, analysts believe BHP could now be at the centre of a mega-merger. The announcement comes as profits continue to rise at the mining giant. In February, BHP said net profits during the second half of last year had jumped by 41% to $6bn thanks to strong demand for minerals, especially from China. A former management consultant, Mr Kloppers,44, joined Billiton in 1993 before the merger with BHP and was instrumental in the creation of the group's aluminium empire. He was most recently head of the group's most profitable nonferrous metals division, which includes aluminium, copper, tin and zinc. The inside appointment is seen by analysts as a sign of good succession planning within BHP and continuity, but also note the pressure he will be under to do deals amid a commodities boom that has triggered a rash of consolidation in the mining sector. Recent reports have suggested that BHP, which is based in Australia but is listed on the London stock market, might look to buy rival Rio Tinto or US aluminium miner Alcoa. announces 41% profit increase 07 Feb dethrones US metals king 09 Oct 06 | Business Alcoa axes thousands to cut costs 23 Jun 05 | Business BHP output hit by copper strike 24 Oct 06 | Business Rio Tinto uncovers record results 01 Feb Tinto's iron output rises 11% 18 Oct 06 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706411.stm to help exploited workers 31 May 2007, 03:05 GMT 04:05 UK to help exploited workers Workers are encouraged to come forward with stories A commission has been launched to try to stamp out the "shocking" exploitation of vulnerable UK workers. Low pay, long hours and unsafe working conditions are among the issues to be addressed by the Commission on Vulnerable Employment. The group, which has been established by the TUC, wants to expose poor treatment and look at how staff can be protected by government and bosses. Workers who feel exploited are urged to come forward with their stories. Business leaders have joined the commission, which plans to talk to exploited workers, including migrants and those working at home. The TUC said that as many as one in five workers could experience poor pay and conditions. "Most people will have the odd grumble about their job, but are treated fairly most of the time," said TUC general secretary Brendan Barber. "But some workers still experience rank exploitation that Charles Dickens would recognise. "Most of the time their experience is hidden, but we have had a recent rash of shocking exposures of poor treatment." Among the business leaders on the commission are Serco chairman Kevin Beeston and Jaeger chief executive Belinda Earl. "The commission is important because there is a real lack of information about the most vulnerable workers in our society," Mr Beeston said. Ms Earl added: "I support the cause of improving the working conditions and rights of Britain's vulnerable workers and would like to play a part in making this goal a reality." the immigrant underclass 25 Apr 07 | UK Women 'form half of all migrants' 06 Sep 06 | World Migrant workers face new slavery 19 Mar 07 | England Migrant workers gain mobile banks 08 Mar 07 | Technology Migrant worker numbers 'unknown' 06 Mar 07 | Wales Commission on Vulnerable Employment economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6704699.stm advice on pension opt-outs 30 May 2007, 14:13 GMT 15:13 UK advice on pension opt-outs A new pamphlet from the FSA gives advice on opt outs The Financial Services Authority (FSA) has published fresh advice to people who may have made a mistake by opting out of the state second pension (S2P). It says people should complain if they think they were wrongly advised to opt out between 1988 and 1997, Earlier this year the FSA said it had found no evidence of systematic mis-selling of the opt-out pensions. But it concluded that 120,000 people might still have been the victims of poor advice to leave the S2P. At the time, the S2P was known as the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (Serps). It was the policy of the then Conservative government to encourage people to opt out of it, into an alternative personal pension, in order to give them greater choice and flexibility. The lure for people to do this was a rebate on their national insurance contributions, which was then invested into their new personal pension policies. Since then, the policy has become widely seen as a mistake, because of much lower-than-expected investment returns. But of the eight million or so people who have opted out at some time in their lives, very few, just 120,000, were making a potentially bad decision which the FSA now thinks should have been spotted at the time. The potential victims it is still worried about are those men who were over 45 at the time they contracted out, and those women who were over 40. They should have been identified as being too old, even then, to benefit from any extra investment potential of the new policies. However, the FSA says even they may, in some cases, have had valid reasons for still following the new policy. The FSA's pamphlet gives readers a guide on what they should do if they were above the relevant age limits, at any time between 1 July 1988 and 5 April 1997. It asks if they were not only above those ages, but were also advised to contract out, and were, in addition, unaware of any special reason for doing so. If they think they do fit these criteria, then they are advised to complain to the firm that gave them the advice and to ask for compensation. "If you were above the pivotal age, advice to contract out was likely to be wrong, unless there was a particular reason that outweighed the likely disadvantage," says the FSA. The average amount of pension that someone might have lost by opting out of the S2P is currently estimated at an average of £7 a week, though in reality some people may have lost nothing at all. However, the FSA warns that people will have no grounds for complaint if they took their own decision, without advice, or if they went ahead despite being advised not to do so. shut at police radio firm Ministers win fight over pensions Union backs BA pensions deal Tories call for pension lifeboat Brown defends pensions decision Brown protest by pension victims Q&A: You and your pension How the new pension plans will affect your retirement. How age affects your pension Pension crisis in figures Pensions White Paper in full Can you defend your scheme? Who pays for our pensions? Q&A: A-Day pension reforms Q&A: Final salary schemes Q&A: Basic state pension Take our Financial Healthcheck ASK THE EXPERT: PENSIONS sites economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK US economy weakest in four years The US economy grew at a pace of 0.6% in the first quarter of 2007, its weakest rate in more than four years. US inflation still worrying Fed US consumer confidence up EMI strikes a deal with YouTube EMI signs a deal with YouTube that will allow the website's users to use music videos by EMI artists. Mortgage approvals hit year low The number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. OTHER TOP BUSINESS STORIES Premiership wages 'to top £1bn' Apple TV to show YouTube Top bankers warn of risky loans Rate rise 'to cool house market' ALSO IN THE NEWS Malaysia seeks new Irish sniffer dogs to root out pirate DVDs MARKET DATA - 17:54 UK Does spending $100m on climate change make a bank green? What do search engines know about us from our online habits? A food supplier follows Korean multinationals into Slovakia VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Waiting over for home buyers in Exeter Dell to sell 'in Wal-Mart' Premiership 'richest in world' China shares hit by tax rise More Video / Audio News Wake Up To Money Russia denies foreign energy bias Motorola unveils 4,000 job cuts Newcastle consider Ashley offer Alliance Boots takeover approved Lord Black prosecutors rest case Ryanair buys new Boeing planes Google privacy policy 'is vague' Cold forces Argentine energy cuts Warning as Eurotunnel shares rise Debt judgments at 10-year-high eBay buys recommendations site Surprise rise in German jobless Manufacturing lifts Indian growth Group to help exploited workers House prices 'still accelerating' Lloyds wins second charges case New advice on pension opt-outs World Bank chief nominated Chinese shares claw back losses US inflation still worrying Fed Philippine growth at 17-year high New chief executive at BHP Rise in profits for water company Australian property firm bought WPP pays libel bill Microsoft unveils table computer New owners reopen MG Rover plant Vancouver is 'best place to live' Mastercard World Cup deal wobbles Eurotunnel 'saved' by investors Guidelines for financial journalists European drug advertising row flares up again There IS a way to cut airports' CO2, but you are not going to like it News on the move Get the latest business headlines on your mobile or PDA Mortgages - a basic guide Dealing with estate agents More guides and information Reading your local housing Coping with rate moves Bank or Building Society? More guides and information How can I manage my debt? Do I qualify for credit? Store cards: pros and cons Finding the right loan When the bailiffs come Dealing with debt collector More guides and information Introduction to income tax Capital gains & inheritance Value Added Tax explained Why wills are important Coping with tax increases More guides and information Tips for self assessment How to write a CV Asking for a pay rise How to de-stress the office Home working pros and cons Time for a career change More guides and information More guides and information Simplification of the pensi BENEFITS & TAX CREDITS More guides and information Writing a business plan Choosing the best software How to best get noticed How much tax to pay ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6708245.stm Boots takeover approved 31 May 2007, 14:17 GMT 15:17 UK Boots takeover approved Alliance Boots says it aims to get a new pensions deal Alliance Boots shareholders have approved an £11.1bn buyout by private equity firm KKR and deputy chairman Stefano Pessina. A total of 96% of Alliance Boots shareholders backed the deal. It is the first time a FTSE 100 company firm has been bought by a private equity firm. The firm expects the takeover to be complete in July, although it remains in talks with pension trustees over future pensions provision. KKR first approached the Boots board in March with an offer for the firm. A bidding war briefly broke out when an investment consortium led by Guy Hands and Terra Firma made an offer for the pharmacy chain, but KKR increased their offer by £500m, which forced their rivals out of the race. Earlier on Thursday, the head of the Alliance Boots pensions fund attacked the firm for backing the deal before an agreement had been reached on future pensions provision. We have made it clear that the borrowings taken on to finance the acquisition will affect the (pension) scheme John Watson, Chairman of the trustees of the Alliance Boots pension scheme John Watson, chairman of the trustees of the health and beauty group's pension scheme, made the comments ahead of the shareholder vote on the takeover. He is worried that the debt being taken on by buyer Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR) may jeopardise the scheme. Alliance Boots said it was urging KKR "to come to some arrangement". "The fact of the matter is that the Boots' pension fund is one of the best run and best funded schemes in the FTSE 100 index," said Alliance Boots chairman Sir Nigel Rudd. "You have my assurance that I will be pressing very hard for an agreement." The pensions scheme's trustees have already intimated that a current review of the fund may show a £305m deficit. They are pushing for KKR to put up to £1bn extra into the scheme. While the trustees have no power to veto the Boots takeover, if an agreement with them is not made it will be the first time that a FTSE 100 company has changed hands without the approval of its pension fund trustees. "We have made it clear that the borrowings taken on to finance the acquisition will affect the scheme," said Mr Watson. The Alliance Boots pension fund has 66,000 members, including 16,000 employees who are still making contributions. Alliance Boots was formed less than a year ago after the merger of Boots and drug wholesale giant Alliance UniChem. rise post-merger at Boots 02 May and job worries in Boots bid 25 Apr Boots was made for stalking 24 Apr Firma drops Boots bid plan 24 Apr war breaks out for Boots 20 Apr bid 'unsettling' for staff 20 Apr 07 | Nottinghamshire economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/football/teams/n/newcastle_united/6693039.stm BBC SPORT | Football | My Club | Newcastle United | Newcastle consider Ashley offer 31 May 2007, 14:19 GMT 15:19 UK consider Ashley offer Ashley purchased the Hall family's stake for £55m Newcastle's board are to "consider" an offer from Mike Ashley following discussions with the billionaire businessman on Thursday. United's board had previously made it clear they required more detail regarding Ashley's offer. That followed his acquisition of Sir John Hall's 41.6% stake. And earlier this month, Hall told BBC Radio Newcastle: "I feel Ashley and his team are right. He will take us to a new dimension." Sir John Hall on BBC Radio Newcastle Hall added: "I'm certain he'll be good for the club or I wouldn't have sold to him." Ashley purchased the Hall family's stake for £55m with the ultimate aim of clinching a complete £133.1m buy-out of chairman Freddy Shepherd and the remaining shareholders. We probably ran out of ideas a bit. There's no room for old men. I've got a lot of experience but it's a young man's game Shepherd, who has a 29.8% stake in the club, is thought to be shocked by recent events, but Hall has backed Ashley - who made his fortune through sportswear firm Sports World. "He knows the passion of the fans, he knows how much it means on Tyneside," Hall said. "I've talked to him enough to be assured they've got the passion for the club as we all have. "You can't run a club without being attached to it. You can't run a club without feeling for it because it is about people, it's about the passion of the people. "He knows the supporters are passionate." Shepherd and the Newcastle board are due to meet shortly to consider Ashley's offer of 100p per share. Ashley needs a 50% share to take control of the club, including who sits on the board That means Shepherd could lose control of the club even if he does not sell his 29% stake Ashley needs Shepherd's shares in order to reach the 75% required to delist the club from the Stock Exchange If Ashley manages to buy more than 50% of shares, he will have day-to-day control of the club and if he gets to 75%, he will be able to delist the club from the Stock Exchange. Hall will remain involved at St James' Park as life president but admitted the time was right for him to step aside. He said: "I think I've done the best thing but one can never tell. I'm 74 now and for some time I've felt the family need to take a new direction. "It's been known we've wanted to sell our shares and move on to other things. "We probably ran out of ideas a bit. You've got to make changes every now and again. "There's no room for old men. I've got a lot of experience but it's a young man's game." Shepherd shocked by Newcastle bid 24 May 07 | Newcastle United The two-man tussle for Newcastle United 24 May get £133m buyout offer 23 May May name Allardyce as boss 15 May 07 | Newcastle United Roeder resigns as Newcastle boss 06 May 07 | Newcastle United Allardyce resigns as Bolton boss 29 Apr 07 | Bolton Wanderers Football on the BBC BBC Tyne Newcastle audio Newcastle fans' views on 606 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6706107.stm inflation still worrying Fed 30 May 2007, 20:05 GMT 21:05 UK inflation still worrying Fed Fed chief Ben Bernanke has left the possibility of rate rises open The US Federal Reserve continues to sees inflation as the "predominant concern" for the economy, minutes from its latest rate-setting meeting show. The Fed left interest rates unchanged at 5.25% on May 9, and many analysts say the inflation worries mean it will keep rates steady for some time. In its minutes, the Fed added that the housing market downturn had been more severe than expected. But it said the risk of the US economy slowing abruptly had lessened. "Nearly all participants viewed core inflation as remaining uncomfortably high and stressed the importance of further moderation," the minutes said. The slump in the housing market - and problems in the sub-prime lending market - has slowed US growth in recent months. And the Fed expressed concern that this could be exacerbated if the fall in house prices left consumers less willing to spend. "The correction of the housing sector is likely to continue to weigh heavily on economic activity through most of this year, somewhat longer than previously expected," the Fed said. This stance "contradicts" its public stance on the economy, said Andy Brenner of Man Financial. "It believes that housing will weigh on the market longer than anticipated." And Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at New York-based Johnson Ellington Advisors, said: "The implication is the economy may not turn out to be as good as forecast." "Their worries about growth are starting to pick up, and that certainly is appropriate," he added. approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6719141.stm | Africa | Nigeria drug trial case delayed 4 June 2007, 12:52 GMT 13:52 UK drug trial case delayed A court case filed by Nigeria's Kano State against Pfizer Inc. over a controversial drug trial in which 11 children died has been delayed. The trial was pushed back by a month to allow the US pharmaceutical giant to appear before the Kano court. The case could not begin as planned because the defendants were not in court, Kano government's lawyer said. Kano government wants $2.7bn compensation for 100 children used as "guinea pigs" in the 1996 drug trial. Pfizer, tested its drug Trovafloxacin in some meningitis-stricken children at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Kano in 1996. Many of the children reportedly died, while several others developed permanent mental and physical deformities. The government says the children were injected with the drug without the consent of their illiterate parents. "The defendants were not in court today so the matter was adjourned to enable them make the next court date," Suleiman Namallam, counsel to the Kano Government told the BBC News website. A Nigerian government investigative panel concluded in 2001 that that the Pfizer experiment was "an illegal trial of an unregistered drug". The panel also said the clinical trial was "clear case of exploitation of the ignorant." Pfizer denies the allegations and claims that its clinical trials were done according to Nigerian laws and international standards. The drug company claims that "verbal consent was obtained" from the parents of the children that took part in the trial and that the exercise was "sound from medical, scientific, regulatory and ethical standpoints". drug trial fears 14 Mar 01 | Africa boycotts start of trial S Africa police clash with nurses Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6720995.stm Choice Tui merger cleared 4 June 2007, 20:11 GMT 21:11 UK Choice Tui merger cleared Tui owns Thomson Holidays, Crystal Holidays and Simply Travel First Choice Holidays and Tui, which owns Thomson Holidays, have been given conditional clearance by the European Commission to merge. The merged company will have to sell Tui's Irish business: Budget Travel. The Commission ruled that the combination with First Choice's Falcon/JWT business would give the group too much of the Irish market. The new firm, Tui Travel, will be listed in London and have 27 million customers and £12bn in annual sales. The clearance followed the Commission's decision last month to allow Thomas Cook to buy the package holiday company MyTravel. First Choice used to be called Owners Abroad and is based in Crawley in West Sussex. Tui's Thomson Holidays has been the biggest UK tour operator since 1974. approves holiday firms merger 04 May 07 | Business First Choice to tie up with TUI 19 Mar 07 | Business Thomson to cut 2,600 jobs in UK 15 Dec 06 | Business French riots hurt travel company 22 Mar 06 | Business TUI to buy shipping firm for $2bn 22 Aug 05 | Business UK travel firms to shed 800 jobs 30 Sep 04 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/6717497.stm | Tenders invited for eco-villages 4 June 2007, 01:09 GMT 02:09 UK invited for eco-villages Solar power is likely to be among the features on the new houses Construction firms are being invited to bid for the right to build five new villages in England made up of environmentally friendly homes. The developments will provide a test ground for Gordon Brown's proposal for five eco-towns of up to 100,000 homes. Some 27% of the UK's 40 million tonnes of annual CO2 emission are from homes. The first eco-villages announced by the English Partnerships Regeneration agency will be at Hanham Hall in Bristol and Glebe Road in Peterborough. Some 21 local authorities have expressed interest in hosting the other three sites, comprising about 150 homes each. The government wants all new homes in England to be carbon neutral by 2016, as part of the fight against global warming. And it has already said that new zero-carbon homes costing less than £500,000 will be exempt from stamp duty from October this year. The new eco-villages could feature solar and wind power. This is our chance to develop the new technologies for zero carbon homes and eco-towns Yvette Cooper, housing minister Newer technologies such as district heating systems which tap into the energy given off by industry and passive heating systems utilising the warmth given off by cookers and televisions may also be used. English Partnerships also wants the bidders for its Carbon Challenge competition to demonstrate that they can produce homes that are affordable to buy and cheap to run. Tenders for the Bristol site will be accepted from Tuesday, with bids for Peterborough opening shortly. "We need more homes but we need to build them at higher standards," said housing minister Yvette Cooper. "The purpose of the challenge is to show that the new technologies work and that they can be used in an affordable way. We want to see more affordable homes. "It's no good if only the rich can afford to be zero carbon." homes rush 'fails eco test' 20 May 07 | UK Brown outlines 'eco towns' plan 13 May 07 | Politics Making your home a green house 14 May 07 | UK Building the towns of the future 15 May 07 | Business 'Zero carbon' homes plan unveiled 13 Dec 06 | Science/Nature Department of Communities and Local Government admits five crash deaths Bridge death girl spoke of sex attack Investigation into chemical fire family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6718261.stm lured by Kenyan listing 4 June 2007, 11:04 GMT 12:04 UK lured by Kenyan listing The digital age in Africa is catching up with the West Internet provider AccessKenya has seen its listing on Nairobi's stock exchange attract huge interest from investors. The firm, which provides wireless access and email, said the listing for 800m Kenyan shillings ($11.9m; £6m) was oversubscribed by 363%. Every category, from wealthy individuals to institutional investors, was fully subscribed. The listing marks the first time that an internet firm has listed in East Africa, reports the Financial Times. Jonathan Somen, a founder of the Kenya-based firm, said the outcome was "a clear signal from investors that they found the price of the shares and the quality of the prospects for our company attractive". "We have achieved one of our key IPO goals which is to have a healthy mixture of different sorts of investors represented on our shareholder register," he added. AccessKenya has offices in Nairobi and Mombasa and offers web hosting for local and international firms. magazine for Africa from the BBC World Service Investors back Kenya power firm 17 May 06 | Business Nowhere to hide in digital Africa 12 Mar 07 | Africa The signs of Ghana's tech success 08 Mar 07 | Africa regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6716429.stm | Asia-Pacific | Australia PM pledges climate plan 3 June 2007, 12:08 GMT 13:08 UK PM pledges climate plan Mr Howard said Australia would set limits on emissions Australian Prime Minister John Howard has announced a shift in policy on climate change, promising to set up a carbon trading scheme to cut pollution. Mr Howard said he would set a target next year for limiting greenhouse gas emissions and also pledged to put in place a carbon trading scheme by 2012. Australia is one of the worst polluters per head of population in the world. Despite his new plans, Mr Howard has warned that setting a cap on carbon emissions would hurt the economy. His announcement comes ahead of a national election later this year, in which Mr Howard will be seeking his fifth consecutive win. If we get this wrong it will do enormous damage to the economy The opposition Labor party, which has a strong lead in the opinion polls, has portrayed the government as dithering and backward-looking on global warming, reports the BBC's Phil Mercer in Sydney. Labor has pledged to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 60% by 2050. Mr Howard does not plan to reveal his targets until next year, once the economic costs of carbon trading have been fully studied. "Implementing an emissions trading scheme and setting a long-term goal for reducing emissions will be the most momentous economic decision Australia will take in the next decade," Mr Howard told an annual meeting of his Liberal Party. "If we get this wrong it will do enormous damage to the economy, to jobs and to the economic well-being of ordinary Australians, especially low-income households." Australia and the US are the only major industrialised nations not to ratify the 1997 Kyoto Protocol on cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Australian farmers have seen record droughts this year Mr Howard promised that Australia's carbon trading scheme would be better than those in place in Europe. Australia has recently seen record drought conditions, which have harmed economic growth and caused widespread despair among the farming community. Residents have been ordered to cut back on consumption and farm production has plummeted. Some experts believe that these parched conditions are the result of the world's hunger for fossil fuels, while others though see it as part of a natural cycle. Whatever the arguments, many Australians want their leaders to be far more proactive when it comes to the environment, our correspondent says. AND AUDIO NEWS John Howard announces the plan Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC China unveils climate change plan Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6717255.stm seek clarity on climate 4 June 2007, 00:20 GMT 01:20 UK seek clarity on climate Climate change brings unknown risks Investors are urging greater clarity from key industrialised nations on policies addressing climate change. The call, in an open letter, comes as leaders of G8 most industrialised nations are to meet in Germany. "Climate change brings significant opportunities and risks for us investors," say the 17 signatories, which hold 3 trillion euros in assets. The only international climate change deal - the Kyoto protocol - expires in 2012. The US never ratified it. Scientific evidence shows that temperatures will increase by 1.8 and 4 degrees Celsius this century, as a result of increased carbon emissions. "To finance the solutions and manage the risks we need a strong policy framework that tackles carbon emissions effectively while providing transparency and stability for investment decision-making" said the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change. The G8 has a vital role to ensure this happens it added. While there is agreement that climate change needs to be addressed, how exactly to do that has met with different views. Germany - the country holding the G8 presidency - has wanted tougher emissions levels, while the US has stressed technological innovation as a key to tackle global warming. Earlier this week, US President George Bush proposed uniting a group of big emitters who would set non-binding targets by the end of next year. But some analysts say this has been interpreted as a way of undercutting other initiatives - for example by the G8 or United Nations. The investor group said it wanted the G8 event to decide upon major aspects for a new Kyoto agreement, in advance of a UN meeting in Indonesia in December. Getting developing nations on board, increasing energy efficiency and reducing deforestation were all issues that needed addressing said the group. out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6711241.stm to prevent Farepak repeat 1 June 2007, 11:00 GMT 12:00 UK to prevent Farepak repeat Farepak victims won't get much compensation An information campaign has been launched to help people who put money into savings clubs and prevent a repeat of the Farepak disaster. The hamper firm's collapse last year ruined Christmas for tens of thousands of people, who did not get the goods or gift vouchers they had saved for. Victims have been warned they will get no more than 5p in every pound saved. The Office of Fair Trading campaign will help consumers choose the safest options for Christmas saving. More than 150,000 people lost an average of £400 when Swindon-based hamper operator Farepak failed. Following a government review earlier this year, money paid into similar Christmas savings schemes will from now on be kept in ring-fenced accounts so customers' money can be returned to them should the company go bust. The collapse of Farepak shows how important these decisions are for many consumers John Fingleton, OFT chief executive The £1m campaign, commissioned and funded by the Treasury, is designed to help consumers understand the full range of options when putting money away in the short term for events like Christmas. These include unsecured schemes organised through a local milkman to the safest arrangements such as putting money into a bank or building society. "The collapse of Farepak when thousands of families lost money at a critical time, shows how important these decisions are for many consumers," said OFT chief executive John Fingleton at the launch, which was promoted by TV gardener Charlie Dimmock. "The bulk of our work in this campaign will involve working with community groups on the ground to increase people's knowledge and skills about their choices." Teresa Perchard, director of policy at Citizens Advice, welcomed the initiative. "We want to ensure that people who are saving up for Christmas know which forms of saving protect consumers' money and which do not," she said. AND AUDIO NEWS How one woman lost all her savings Farepak 'faces claims worth £38m' Farepak fund donations total £7m Ruling frustrates Farepak savers Farepak customers recoup 15% MPs warn against Farepak repeat Farepak bosses branded 'villains' Some Farepak savers are having to turn to doorstep lenders. A nightmare before Christmas Q&A: The Farepak collapse Farepak agents speak of sadness Farepak chief 'sorry' for collapse Farepak boss takes luxury holiday Warning over savings clubs 'risk' Bleak Christmas for hamper firm Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Office of Fair Trading regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6720101.stm are 'worth at least $200bn' 4 June 2007, 17:57 GMT 18:57 UK are 'worth at least $200bn' Software is one of the most commonly pirated items At least $200bn (£100bn) worth of counterfeit goods were sold in 2005, an Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) report has said. But the total value of counterfeit items made and sold worldwide - from medicine to computer software - could be much higher, the OECD added. It said the products made were "often substandard" and "can even be dangerous". The OECD called on nations to increase the action taken against the crime. The $200bn approximation, based on data from customs seizures in OECD countries, did not include fake and pirated goods which were made and sold in the same country. Digital products, distributed via the internet, were also not factored into the total. "If these items were added, the total magnitude of counterfeiting and piracy worldwide could well be several hundred billion dollars more," the OECD said. The OECD studied the problem for 18 months. Counterfeiting and piracy are illicit businesses in which criminal networks thrive In addition to items such as computer software and DVDs, car parts, medicines and electrical components were among the types of goods identified by the report. China was recognised as the largest source of pirated goods - accounting for about 86% of goods confiscated. In other findings, the Middle East was identified as the biggest market for fake car parts, while the consumption of counterfeit cigarettes was highest in Latin America, Africa and Asia. "Counterfeiting and piracy are illicit businesses in which criminal networks thrive," the report said. "The report shows that the items that they and other counterfeiters and pirates produce and distribute are often substandard and can even be dangerous." The International Chamber of Trade (ICC) welcomed the "comprehensive and thorough investigation of the problem" and also called on governments to act swiftly to crush these crimes. The world business body estimated the total value of counterfeit and pirated goods worldwide is more than $600bn, but even this was the "tip of the iceberg". It said the OECD failed to factor in the broader impacts - including those on employment, consumer health and safety and tax revenues. "The costs to society and economies around the world are enormous," said ICC secretary general Guy Sebban. A European Union study, published last month, found that the number of counterfeited items seized by customs officials had trebled in 2006 against the previous year. cancer drugs probe launched 02 Jun 07 | Health Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' 04 Jun 07 | Asia-Pacific Call to target UK software piracy 23 May 06 | Technology China to tackle software piracy 12 Apr 06 | Technology Rampant piracy threatens PC games 14 Mar 07 | Technology International Chamber of Commerce regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6710827.stm rules to stop carousel fraud 1 June 2007, 08:28 GMT 09:28 UK rules to stop carousel fraud The new tax system applies only to mobile phone and computer chips New measures to counter a multi-billion pound tax fraud have come into effect. Retailers and wholesalers trading in mobile phones and computer chips will have to change the way they collect and account for value added tax (VAT). The new tax policy, known as a "reverse charge", is aimed at stopping the import and export of these goods as part of so-called "carousel" fraud. HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) says it will halt the opportunity for criminals to make bogus VAT reclaims. However some experts say that criminals will simply switch their attention to other high value goods instead. "It's not going to be the whole solution," said Stephen Coleclough, a leading VAT expert from the Chartered Institute of Taxation. "Criminal gangs are likely to swap into other high value items, such as diamonds. I have even heard of car tyres being used." How the carousel works The UK government has lost billions of pounds to this fraud since the start of the decade as a result of paying out on dishonest claims for VAT repayment. A former head of the HMRC described it as the most serious attack there has ever been on the UK's tax system. The government has admitted that in 2005-06, the last year for which estimates are available, it lost between £2bn and £3bn. In the past year though, the authorities seem to have clamped down on it successfully. According to figures from the Office for National Statistics, there was £17bn worth of trade associated with the fraud in the first six months of the 2006-07 financial year. But in recent months the value of such trade has dropped to an estimated £100m a month. Among the measures the authorities have taken to achieve this have been: the arrest of criminals in the UK and abroad greater scrutiny of new VAT registrations more extensive checking of claims for refunds when goods are shipped abroad logging of individual mobile phones each time they are imported or exported. The opportunity to carry out the fraud exists because of the nature of the EU's VAT system. Traders who import and export goods between EU countries do not have to pay VAT. Thus items can be imported, passed through a series of contrived transactions - where VAT should be collected - and then exported. At that point the dishonest trader can submit a claim for the repayment of the tax that was never collected in the first place. This has happened with the same goods being sent round and round across numerous EU borders - hence the name "carousel" fraud. The new tax system, which applies in the UK only, will mean that anyone trading in mobile phones and computer chips will no longer have to collect - or pretend to collect - VAT until the items reach the end of a chain, for instance by being sold in a shop. Thus anyone who exports the goods will no longer have an apparently legitimate reason for claiming a refund. "The retailer won't be selling a million pounds of mobile phones in one go, and if he has a shop in the high street he's unlikely not to pay because the tax man knows where to find him," Mr Coleclough added. CRIME IN THE UK STATE OF THE NATION New ways to make criminals pay Report attacks crime assets body New clampdown on carousel fraud Fraudsters slip through the net Soca ready to follow the money Reported fraud 'at 10-year high' Could the North-East show the way to beat regional fraud? From Armalites to assets New powers for fraud crackdown Nemesis for VAT fraudsters Defences against ID theft Tax credit fraudsters are jailed The assault on tax credits Tax credits 'targeted by gangs' regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6714079.stm car sales recovery led by GM 1 June 2007, 21:21 GMT 22:21 UK car sales recovery led by GM Drivers have been battling against surging fuel prices Demand for hybrid and smaller passenger cars amid rising fuel prices helped US car sales rebound from a weak spring. General Motors (GM) led the increase as sales were up 12.8% on May last year after it sold 371,056 light vehicles. Elsewhere, Japanese rival Toyota ousted US group Ford from the number two spot with a 10% jump in sales while Ford sales sank 6.9%. Sales were driven by smaller, more fuel efficient cars as petrol prices hit record highs around $3 a gallon. "We saw strong total and retail sales increases," said GM's vice president of North American sales, Mark LaNeve. "Our significant market share gains in full-size trucks and crossovers validates the decision we made to invest in industry-leading fuel economy in these important segments." Overall, sales of GM cars rose 16.2% while light truck sales gained 5.6%. Toyota car sales also rose 16.2% - as Camry passenger cars sales rose and its sales of its hybrid Prius surged to a record 24,009 from 8,103 in May last year. Light truck sales rose 10.9%. "As fuel prices and consumer confidence rose, the industry saw a move to passenger cars," said Jim Lentz, Toyota's US executive vice president. Elsewhere, fellow Asian carmaker Nissan also recorded a 7.4% increase in sales, thanking a good performance from its fuel-efficient small cars for the rise. DaimlerChrysler - which last month agreed to sell a majority stake in its ailing US arm to Cerberus Capital for 5.5bn euros ($7.41bn; £3.7bn) - also said sales were up 3.9%. On the downside, Ford - the second biggest carmaker in the US - and Asian carmaker Honda both unveiled a decline in sales. Ford said overall vehicle sales fell 6.9% as car sales dropped by 17.7% while truck sales remained flat. The company blamed slackening demand for its saloon cars and a planned cut in sales to rental fleets. II: Looking at the changes to the world's car industry The demise of Detroit Triumph of lean production US car workers fight back Globalising the car industry GM betting on a greener future Chrysler chases baby boomers Can Bill Gates save Ford? Restructuring the global car industry: the rise of lean production Bold moves on the road to ruin? Crunch time for US auto industry Special Report: Rover's Demise Peugeot workers feel betrayed Rise of Mass Production The star cars on show in Detroit Your experiences of restructuring regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6717803.stm sells David Lloyd gyms 4 June 2007, 06:31 GMT 07:31 UK sells David Lloyd gyms Gyms and health clubs have become big business in the UK Leisure company Whitbread is to sell its David Lloyd gym chain for £925m. The health clubs are being bought by Versailles Bidco, the bid vehicle of private equity firm London & Regional Holdings and Bank of Scotland. Whitbread, which owns the Costa Coffee, Premier Travel Inn and Beefeater chains, said it planned to use the cash to reduce its debts. The sale of David Lloyd Leisure follows Whitbread's disposal of TGI Friday and its 50% stake in Pizza Hut. "Following the success of the management action taken in David Lloyd over the last 18 months, and a review of the health club market, we have decided that this sale represents excellent value for our shareholders," said Whitbread chief executive Alan Parker. "Whitbread is now well placed to deliver the ambitious growth plan for its hotels, restaurants and coffee shops." The David Lloyd chain has 69 outlets, of which 60 are across the UK and the Republic of Ireland. It was originally set up by tennis player David Lloyd in 1982, who sold it to Whitbread for £182m in 1995. gets David Lloyd offers 26 Mar 07 | Business Whitbread is promoted to FTSE 100 06 Dec 06 | Business Whitbread investors to bag £350m 24 Oct 06 | Business Whitbread sells Marriott hotels 21 Apr 06 | Business Sales at Whitbread under pressure 15 Dec 05 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6718087.stm see 'healthy trade' 4 June 2007, 09:25 GMT 10:25 UK see 'healthy trade' Manufacturers appear upbeat despite the strong pound More UK manufacturing companies are seeing a rise in output and orders than at any time in 11 years, according to the EEF manufacturing group. The balance of firms seeing a rise in orders and output for April, May and June of this year was +23%, with companies enjoying "healthy trading". The balance was at its highest level since 1996, the EEF said. However, the group warned that the high value of the pound had become a concern for some companies. It said this was evident by the fact that the balance of export orders for the second quarter of this year had dropped from +16% to +10%. "Manufacturers are continuing to enjoy healthy trading conditions at home and abroad and this is being translated into better prospects for investment and employment," said EEF chief economist Steve Radley. "However, we may be seeing the first impact of the strength of the pound against the dollar and this is affecting expectations for the rest of the year." The EEF - which surveyed 900 companies - added that the manufacturing sector should continue expand both this year and in 2008. OR SLOWING DOWN? Bank still sees inflation risks Inflation slows to 2.8% in April Trade deficit widens to £4.5bn Bank sees 'sharp' inflation drop Rate hike fear as inflation jumps Pound at 26-year dollar high Q&A: How inflation affects you Q&A: Interest rate rise and you Interest rates raised to 5.5% IN DEPTH - BUDGET 2007 Budget 2007 in depth regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6705957.stm judgments hit 10-year high 30 May 2007, 18:26 GMT 19:26 UK judgments hit 10-year high Credit debts lead to the majority of CCJs being issued The number of County Court Judgments (CCJs) against consumer debtors has reached its highest level in almost 10 years, figures show. Nearly 250,000 CCJs were issued in England and Wales in the first three months of 2007 - up 9.5% on the same period a year ago. Lenders were "increasingly using the court route to deal with unsecured debts", the Registry Trust said. Experts said the data also showed more households were struggling financially. The 247,187 CCJs issued for consumer debt is the highest since the summer of 1997 The total number of judgements issued - including those served on businesses - was 296,841, up 9.1%. About 70% of the consumer CCJs were directly linked to credit, according to an estimate by the Registry Trust, which collates the data. Organisations such as the HM Revenue & Customs and water firms issued many of the others, it said, as did the Swansea-based Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency which takes out CCJs for non-payment of road tax. Debtors not complying with the terms of judgements are put on a CCJ register for six years, making it more difficult for them to take out loans or mortgages. "The dominant trend is upwards in consumer judgments and this quarter's record numbers give a warning to unsecured borrowers that their credit ratings are at risk and further proceedings are only a step away," said Malcolm Hurlston of the Registry Trust. Throughout the 1990s, judgments declined as the economy improved and lenders turned away from the courts. The latest data also showed a 12% growth in the number of searches of CCJ registers. face 'lifetime of debts' Overdraft fees in dock The UK's debt footprint OFT wins credit card cover appeal Store cards 'need rate warning' ' Repossession' entries 14-15 ' Payment deadline' entries 16-18 'Race against time' entries 19-20 'Creditor offer' entries 21-23 'Final thoughts' entries 24-25 Your credit rating explained Q&A: How to manage debt Interest-free deals laid bare Adopting a budget plan Golden rules of debt Take the Debt Test and get help and advice if you are in trouble Take our Financial Healthcheck ASK THE EXPERT ON DEBT More on borrowing and debt regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6714351.stm | Bank test case needed, judge says 2 June 2007, 04:06 GMT 05:06 UK test case needed, judge says A rising number of customers are taking their banks to court Bank customers reclaiming overdraft charges in court will continue to face a lottery unless a test case is heard, a senior county court judge has said. Stephen Gerlis, who speaks for all district judges in London, said the number of cases was "unprecedented". He was speaking after a judge in Hull threatened to strike out 20 claims. Most previous rulings have gone in favour of customers. The judge said all sides should let a case reach the Court of Appeal. To date the banks have avoided contesting hearings to avoid a legal precedent being set that could potentially cost them millions. Judges have therefore tended to automatically find in favour of the claimant without formally setting a precedent. In the Hull case, District Judge Ian Besford cited a hearing won by Lloyds TSB in Birmingham. The ruling was not binding but other judges are entitled to follow it if they wish. Judge Gerlis told BBC Radio 4's Money Box programme the legal system currently has no mechanism to quickly resolve the issues emerging from the "mass litigation". BBC Radio 4's Money Box was broadcast on Saturday, 2 June 2007 at 1204 BST. The programme will be repeated on Sunday, 3 June 2007 at 2102 BST. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction from consumer rights group Which? CREDIT CARD & BANK CHARGES Lloyds wins second charges case Bank apology for charges letter Barrister fights Natwest charges Bank charge firms under spotlight Bank's overdraft charges upheld NI bank charges 'should be cut' Bouncing a cheque may cost a bank less than £2. Was the bank victory an accident? The banks' guilty secret? 'No win no fee' moves in on banks How to reclaim bank charges In depth - borrowing and debt Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/more_or_less/6718281.stm | More Or Less | 'Babies boom' for working women 4 June 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 UK boom' for working women High female employment also means high fertility says Kevin Daly High numbers of women in the workplace also mean a higher birth-rate, a senior economist has revealed. Kevin Daly, economist with investment bank Goldman Sachs, said it was a myth that in developed countries women either chose paid work or babies. But Mr Daly told Radio 4's More Or Less that such countries had to reach a certain level of development. "It is counter-intuitive to the traditional view of working and having children," said Mr Daly. Mr Daly, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, checked the numbers for family size, country by country, next to the levels of female participation in the labour market and found that in developed countries, the numbers went up together. "Initially I was surprised at this data. "It's also very refreshing then to find something like this, where there's important social implications but also intuitive financial market implications that follow from such an important social issue," he added. Mr Daly said underdeveloped countries had a combination of low numbers of women in the workforce and high fertility rates In some societies it is not easy to combine paid work and motherhood "Essentially in these countries it is impossible for women to work at all," he added. "When you then emerge from that into the second stage of development, where women can work but society is set up and laws and tax policies are set up, that it is very difficult for women to combine employment with child care. In such scenarios, you find that both employment and fertility suffer. Within such a group are countries such as the Mediterranean countries and also Japan, where you have both very low fertility rates and also very low female employment." Mr Daly said there was a third level of countries in which society made it easier to combine paid employment and having children. "In such a scenario, fertility rates and female employment both tend to be considerably higher," he said. But he also said: "Economists need to be very careful in the treatment of the data and as a micro-economist, I wouldn't claim that this single factor explains all the variation in fertility rates across countries. "There are a million other influences on the decisions that families make. I think what is interesting is the that the result will be counter intuitive to many." BBC Radio 4's More Or Less is broadcast on Monday 4 June 2007 at 1630 BST. You can listen to the programme for seven days after broadcast by clicking to help women in workplace 11 Sep 06 | Politics Working mums: Are you struggling to cope? 09 Apr 02 | Talking Point Are you delaying parenthood? 18 Nov 03 | Have Your Say family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6719749.stm growth in US factory orders 4 June 2007, 15:24 GMT 16:24 UK growth in US factory orders Orders for transportation goods vary dramatically from month to month Poor demand for aircraft and other transport hurt April's US factory orders, which were lower than expected. Total orders rose by 0.3%, Commerce Department figures have shown - much lower than the 0.8% increase forecast. A drop in transport orders was not particularly significant as it is a volatile category, analysts said. They argue a better guide to business spending is the growth in orders for non-defence capital items excluding aircraft, up 2.1% and higher in March. The Commerce Department also revised March's overall factory orders to a 4.1% gain, up from 3.1%, which added to confidence that US manufacturing maybe picking up after a recent slowdown linked to the cooling economy. The March data was heavily influenced by a large amount of aircraft orders. US manufacturing sentiment has been volatile in recent months, as companies have looked to trim new orders in the wake of a general slump in housing and a build-up in supplies of unsold cars. However, the Commerce Department said orders for durable goods - items built to last for at least three years - rose by 0.8% during April, topping forecasts of a 0.6% rise. Orders for non-durable goods, such as petrol and chemicals, fell by 0.2%. approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6716933.stm to reveal damage of flights 3 June 2007, 16:44 GMT 17:44 UK to reveal damage of flights Flybe says passengers will see the emissions from different aircraft Low-cost carrier Flybe is to provide its customers with data showing fuel use, carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions and the noise patterns of its planes. The firm says this "eco-labelling" plan is the first of its kind and will let people choose which route or aircraft is the least environmentally damaging. This data will also help them decide if they want to offset their journey to counter the damage, says Flybe. Aviation emissions are 6% of the UK's total but set to rise significantly. The Department for Transport predicts air travel will rise three-fold by 2050 based on 2003 levels. Flybe said that giving passengers more information was meant to help them identify which type of aircraft or which type of route was "the most sensitive to the environment". assesses noise rating, emissions on take-off and landing - grades fuel consumption, CO2 emissions for different distances - provides data on leg room and seat numbers Flybe says it has invested more than £2bn in "new state-of-the-art environmentally sensitive aircraft" - including the Bombardier Q400 and the Embraer 195. The firm says it is phasing out all other aircraft acquired when it bought BA Connect in March 2007. Flybe has named UK charity Pure to oversee carbon offsetting schemes for its passengers. Offsetting - by which consumers can pay a certain amount for someone else to reduce their emissions - has become a popular way to pay for the damage done by flying and other activities. However a lack of consistency or transparency has raised concerns over the effectiveness of such schemes. We take up the challenge to...help bring pressure across the industry to reduce emissions by improving standards In December last year the UK government said it would set standards for carbon offsetting schemes to bring "greater clarity" to the industry. Pure - which invests donor money into certified credits approved under the EU allowance system - was one of only a handful of providers that met the government's standards. Following the launch, Flybe said it aimed to "help bring pressure across the industry to reduce emissions by improving standards." The announcement by Flybe comes as Virgin says it will launch a service offering a business class only service, operating from main European cities, within 18 months. to shut down Bristol routes 06 Mar 07 | Business Flights hit by BA sale to Flybe 05 Mar 07 | Business Profit fall for British Airways 02 Feb 07 | Business UK 'must act' on plane emissions 17 Oct 06 | Science/Nature UK to tackle bogus carbon schemes 18 Jan 07 | Business Brown to double taxes on flights 06 Dec 06 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6717851.stm Leisure chief departs firm 4 June 2007, 07:00 GMT 08:00 UK Leisure chief departs firm Blacks has suffered a fall in sales Outdoor clothing and equipment firm Blacks Leisure has said its chief executive Russell Hardy is stepping down by mutual consent. Blacks, which said its current trading was in line with expectations, said finance director Keith Fleming will now become acting chief executive. Back in March, the firm said it was shutting 45 stores, and warned that profits would be below expectations. The firm blamed falling sales last year on warmer weather. Blacks added in Monday's statement that it was also now reviewing the future of its Freespirit surf, skate and snowboarding clothing and equipment brand. plans to close 45 stores 01 Mar 07 | Business Glastonbury lull blights Blacks 23 Aug 06 | Business Blacks boosted by great outdoors 06 May 04 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6719417.stm into Farepak's accountants 4 June 2007, 15:42 GMT 16:42 UK into Farepak's accountants Some people lost as much as £2,000 when Farepak collapsed Regulators have opened an inquiry into the conduct of individual accountants involved in last year's collapse of Christmas savings firm Farepak. The Accountancy Investigation and Discipline Board (AIDB) said it would study those involved in the preparation of Farepak's accounts to 30 April 2005. It will also scrutinise conduct "in relation to the circumstances leading up to" Farepak's October collapse. The accountancy regulator said the move was in the public interest. Farepak left an estimated 150,000 savers about £40m out of pocket when it went into administration. Administrators BDO Stoy Hayward estimate that savers will only get back 4p or 5p for every £1 they gave to the firm. The AIDB said its investigation would also include those accountants who worked for Farepak's parent firm, European Home Retail. It stressed that individual accountants were under investigation, rather than any accountancy companies. An AIDB spokeswoman said it could neither confirm nor deny whether any members of accountancy giant Ernst & Young were under investigation. Ernst & Young audited Farepak's accounts for the year to 30 April 2005. "Ernst & Young can confirm that neither the firm nor members of the firm have had any communication from the AIDB on this matter," it said in a statement. 'faces claims worth £38m' Farepak fund donations total £7m Ruling frustrates Farepak savers Farepak customers recoup 15% MPs warn against Farepak repeat Farepak bosses branded 'villains' Some Farepak savers are having to turn to doorstep lenders. A nightmare before Christmas Q&A: The Farepak collapse Farepak agents speak of sadness Farepak chief 'sorry' for collapse Farepak boss takes luxury holiday Warning over savings clubs 'risk' Bleak Christmas for hamper firm regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6717819.stm worries knock Chinese shares 4 June 2007, 07:58 GMT 08:58 UK worries knock Chinese shares China has been embarking on a range on new economic measures The Chinese stock market closed more than 8% lower on concerns that the government is set to launch further measures to cool the economy. The benchmark composite Shanghai share index closed 330.34 points or 8.26% down at 3,670.40. Chinese shares were hit last week after Beijing opted to triple the tax on stock transactions. Investors fear China might now embark on a capital gains tax to further cool China's break-neck economic growth. "Investors are still panicking about recent market talk that the government might levy capital gain taxes," said Wang Jun, an analyst with Merchants Securities. "In any event many can still sell their holdings and make a big profit," he added. Despite the drop, some analysts say this is likely to be only be a temporary slide. Even if the government does embark on more taxes, this will not thwart the overall upward trend of China's stock market, they argue. China has issued a range of measures recently as part of wider economic reforms, including a new bankruptcy law giving creditors precedence over workers. China's economic liberalisation forged a new Shanghai Taking on the multinationals Banking on China's boom Cracking China's car market The changing face of outsourcing Rivals chase GM at auto show China's new economic frontier How globalisation is driving change across the world economy Globalisation shakes the world Has outsourcing changed the world? regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6712711.stm jobs stimulus for US economy 1 June 2007, 15:14 GMT 16:14 UK jobs stimulus for US economy Economic migrants add to the US labor market The US economy added 157,000 new jobs in May, its biggest growth in two months, as firms continued to employ despite the sluggish economy. The Labor Department figures, which also showed that unemployment was unchanged at 4.5%, were better than analysts had been expecting. They contrasted with April's revised figure of 80,000 new jobs, which was the lowest monthly total in two years. Wages rose modestly in May, up 0.3% on the month and 3.8% on an annual basis. Analysts said this data suggested inflation threats were easing. Sectors creating jobs last month included leisure, education and professional services. But the ongoing housing slump partly contributed to a fall in construction and manufacturing jobs. The US always sees a rise in the number of people in work, as the size of its workforce grows - partly through immigration. But there was concern about May's figure after April's weak performance and recent data showing the lowest first-quarter economic growth in four years. Although an improvement on April, May's figure was lower than March's 175,000 total. Economists said the jobs data hinted that many firms were managing to cope with the troubles hitting some sectors as well as the rise in petrol and energy costs. The minutes of the Federal Reserve's last interest rate meeting, at which rates were pegged at 5.25%, said inflation remained "the predominant concern" for the US economy. approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts US Department of Labor regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6719721.stm Airports accepts takeover 4 June 2007, 15:39 GMT 16:39 UK Airports accepts takeover Alpha operates airport stores and in-flight catering Airline services firm Alpha Airports has agreed to be bought by Italy's Autogrill in a deal which values the UK firm at £193.6m ($384.6m). Autogrill, the world's largest caterer for travellers, has been building a stake in Alpha since last week. Earlier on Monday, it raised its stake to 42.7%. Autogrill is now offering to pay 110 pence per share for the shares in Alpha it does not already own. Alpha Airports runs in-flight catering and also operates shops at airports. Autogrill's cash offer of 110p per share represents a 58.3% premium to Alpha's closing share price on 29 May, the day before Autogrill said it was considering an offer. Alpha chairman Martin Flower said the offer was "compelling" and was "excellent news" for shareholders, customers and employees. "The acquisition by Autogrill represents a unique opportunity to develop Alpha Airports on a truly global scale, enhance its service offering and build on its market-leading position," said Alpha Airports chairman Martin Flower. Autogrill operates catering services at airports, railway stations and along motorways in 32 countries. Analysts said the deal would help Autogrill to increase its presence in the UK. At present, its only UK business is a food and drink contract at London's City airport. firm has shares suspended 25 Apr 06 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707157.stm approvals hit year low 31 May 2007, 11:16 GMT 12:16 UK approvals hit year low Recent interest rate rises in the UK could be beginning to bite The number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. Mortgage approvals totalled 107,000 in April, down from 111,000 in March and the third monthly decline in a row. In a further indication of weakening buyer demand mortgage lending rose by £8.9bn, much less than expected and the weakest rise since September Consumer debt rose by only £498m - half what was expected and the smallest increase since March 1997. "The Bank of England will be comforted by today's news which shows its monetary tightening is taking effect," said Thushani Gajasinghe, an economist at the Centre for Economic and Business Research. "With a further quarter-point rate increase possible in the third quarter, consumer lending may cool further." Historically low interest rates in the past few years have encouraged Britons to take on a mountain of debt - now reaching £1.5 trillion. However, interest rates have risen four times since the beginning of August last year which has begun to put pressure on some households' finances. Interest rates rose to 5.5% last month and it is widely thought a further rate increase is on the cards before August, and could even hit 6% by the end of the year. These rate rises are already impacting the consumer's attitude to credit card spending, and are expected to eventually take some of the steam out of the surging housing market and stabilise soaring property prices. But with double-digit price growth reported by Nationwide for May, analysts remain tentative on calling when a slowdown may occur. Global Insight economist Howard Archer said a general property shortage - particularly in London and the South East - would keep pricing power in favour of the vendor for a little while yet. But he did point out that significantly more houses have come onto the market in recent weeks as vendors looked to beat the planned introduction of compulsory Home Information Packs (Hips) in June. "This could well have some dampening impact on house prices in the near term at least, although it remains to be seen how housing supply will be affected by the delaying of the introduction of Hips to at least August," he added. AND AUDIO NEWS Why house prices are rising at different rates across England High home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house Fed up with the housing market? Find out more about the issues here regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6714201.stm Street surges to new record 1 June 2007, 21:56 GMT 22:56 UK Street surges to new record Dow Jones Industrial Average Reassuring employment data helped the Dow Jones Industrial Index to end at a record for the 26th time this year. The index rose 40.47 points to close at 13,668.11, buoyed by figures showing the biggest jobs growth in the US for two months. The good news also helped the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index end 5.72 points higher at 1,536.34 - breaking records set in the tech boom of 2000. Elsewhere takeover activity also helped drive shares higher. "The current rebound in economic activity continues to challenge arguments that the housing downturn is poised to overwhelm the expansion," said Robert DiClemente at Citigroup. In recent months, experts have voiced concern about the health of the US economy as growth slowed to its weakest pace in four years - with the drop being blamed on a slump in the housing market and a widening trade gap. But economists said the latest employment figures showing 157,000 jobs were created in May alongside data showing just a modest 0.3% rise in wage growth suggested inflation threats to the economy were easing. "Today's moderately strong jobs report capped another week of indicators pointing to a healthy bounce in second quarter growth to above 3.0%," added Mr DiClemente. As well as positive economic news the market was also buoyed by takeover and merger talk surrounding a number of firms including media group Dow Jones. The Bancroft family - which controls the Wall Street Journal owner - has said it will look at a $5bn takeover bid from Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation as well as any forthcoming rival offers. DATA - 22:14 UK What approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts New York Stock Exchange regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6717745.stm sees investment hit record 4 June 2007, 06:20 GMT 07:20 UK sees investment hit record Japan's economy is enjoying its strongest growth for decades Capital investment by Japanese firms hit a record in the first quarter of 2007, another sign of the country's economic recovery, official data shows. Business spending hit 17.7 trillion yen ($145bn; £73bn) for the first three months of 2007 - a rise of 13.6% compared with the same period in 2006. The rate of increase was less than that seen in the three months to December, but above market forecasts. The latest data makes another interest rate rise likely, analysts say. Japan's economy - the second largest in the world - has recently been boosted by stronger exports and more consumer spending. After maintaining a zero interest rate policy for a decade, Japan's central bank increased the rate to 0.25% last July and then to 0.5% in February this year. "The economy continues to get support from robust corporate earnings and very low interest rates," said Takuji Aida, chief economist of Barclay's Capital. Corporate profits also rose for the period, increasing by 7.4% compared with the same three month period a year earlier. confidence dips in Japan 02 Apr 07 | Business Japan holds interest rate at 0.5% 20 Mar 07 | Business Japan ups interest rates to 0.5% 21 Feb 07 | Business Japanese inflation edges higher 26 Jan 07 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/default.stm 4 June 2007, 20:20 GMT 21:20 UK Bates regains Leeds Utd control Ken Bates has regained control of Leeds Utd following a recount of votes taken at last week's creditors' meeting. Leeds Utd call in administrators Bates warning over Leeds future First Choice Tui merger cleared The merger between First Choice Holidays and Tui, owner of Thomson Holidays, gets conditional clearance. much-anticipated iPhone will hit US stores on 29 June, at a cost of $499 for the entry product. OTHER TOP BUSINESS STORIES Tax worries knock Chinese shares Fakes are 'worth at least $200bn' Sony price cut for Blu-ray player Weak growth in US factory orders ALSO IN THE NEWS Malaysia seeks new Irish sniffer dogs to root out pirate DVDs MARKET DATA - 22:14 UK Can simple ideas fix the big problem of climate change? Run it like Fergie How bosses can ensure they make great managers How tiny Djibouti is aiming to be an elite tourist destination VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Petrol thieves use stolen cars Mobile makers under pressure Virgin launch business airline Bank charges 'need test case' More Video / Audio News Wake Up To Money Probe into Farepak's accountants Alpha Airports accepts takeover 'Babies boom' for working women Whitbread sells David Lloyd gyms Blacks Leisure chief departs firm Manufacturers see 'healthy trade' Japan sees investment hit record Investors lured by Kenyan listing Nigeria drug trial case delayed China puts emphasis on economy Staff mental illness 'increasing' Tenders invited for eco-villages Investors seek clarity on climate Banks need test case, judge says Advice to prevent Farepak repeat Mortgage approvals hit year low Debt judgments hit 10-year high Australia to start carbon trading New jobs stimulus for US New rules to stop carousel fraud Wall Street surges to new record Flybe to reveal damage of flights RBS is 'to sell' Southern Water US car sales recovery led by GM Flybe to reveal damage of flights US car sales recovery led by GM PC maker Dell to cut 7,000 jobs Premiership wages 'to top 1bn' Microsoft unveils table computer Guidelines for financial journalists Why Chinese market woes are failing to dent global shares Virtual worlds are earning real companies big bucks Economist Jeffrey Sachs on today's global challenges Mortgages - a basic guide Dealing with estate agents More guides and information Reading your local housing Coping with rate moves Bank or Building Society? More guides and information How can I manage my debt? Do I qualify for credit? Store cards: pros and cons Finding the right loan When the bailiffs come Dealing with debt collector More guides and information Introduction to income tax Capital gains & inheritance Value Added Tax explained Why wills are important Coping with tax increases More guides and information Tips for self assessment How to write a CV Asking for a pay rise How to de-stress the office Home working pros and cons Time for a career change More guides and information More guides and information Simplification of the pensi BENEFITS & TAX CREDITS More guides and information Writing a business plan Choosing the best software How to best get noticed How much tax to pay ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6716731.stm is 'to sell' Southern Water 3 June 2007, 14:33 GMT 15:33 UK is 'to sell' Southern Water Interest in buying water firms has increased recently The Royal Bank of Scotland is considering selling Southern Water for around £4bn, according to reports. The bank said it was "reviewing" the water firm, which it bought four years ago, as part of normal procedures, but would not comment further. Southern Water, which supplies Kent and Sussex and holds assets of some £2.9bn, said it was "business as usual". Utilities firms have posted strong profits recently, adding to speculation about sales in the sector. Interest in the water industry - especially by private equity firms - has risen. They are seen as a source of solid cash generation, say analysts. While RBS owns a 50% stake in Southern Water, in terms of economic interest this figure is around 90%, due to a complex ownership arrangement. The private equity arm of RBS is reported to have selected Deutsche Bank to advise on options for Southern Water. Deutsche Bank was unavailable for comment. Increasing interest in the utilities industry was evident last year when Australia's Macquarie bought Thames Water for a 20% premium on the group's value. Meanwhile Anglian Water was sold to a group of investors in Britain, Australia and Canada, for a 25% premium. The speculation around Southern Water comes as a series of water firms are set to post profits this week. bumps ABN decision to Tuesday 25 May 07 | Business ABN Amro boss declines Shell job 14 May 07 | Business RBS bank offer 'snubbed' by ABN 07 May 07 | Business RBS 'mounts bid' for LaSalle bank 06 May 07 | Business ABN Amro sued over bank dispute 04 May 07 | Business Court blow to Barclays ABN deal 03 May 07 | Business Royal Bank of Scotland regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://www.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/guidelines/editorialguidelines/advice/ BBC - Editorial Guidelines - More Guidance Editorial Guidelines in Full How to use this site Send it to a friend! The following guidance, guidelines and links supplement the BBC Editorial Guidelines. Always read the relevant section of the Guidelines as well as the guidance. Click on the text to see the guidance as web pages. Click on the word document icon to read a word document. List of guidance in alphabetical order: Access Agreements and Indemnity Forms Conflicts of Interest Guidelines Election Guidelines: May 2007 Employees Personal Weblogs and Websites, Guidelines on Game Shows and Competitions Informed Consent and Consent Forms Make-Over Programmes, Funding and Selection of Contributors National Lottery, Guidelines For Coverage Of Non Sports Events, Mounting and Coverage Of Northern Ireland Assembly Election Coverage Guidelines Off-air Activities Guidance Note for News and Current Affairs Presenters and Editorial Staff in BBC News, BBC Nations and Regions and BBC Global News Parliamentary Broadcasting: Rules of Coverage Recording The Natural World Reporting The United Kingdom Television Viewers with Hearing Loss, Guidance on Terrorism, Use of Language When Reporting Video and Audio News Releases Video, Audio and Stills Contributions From Members Of The Public in BBC News Output Visually Impaired Television Viewers, Guidance on Some links below lead to information on the BBC's internal website, which can only be accessed by BBC staff. If you need this information please contact Editorial Policy. Branding Guidelines from BBC Marketing and Communication (Link to internal BBC site) Joint Promotions with Third Parties in the UK, Guidelines (Link to internal BBC site) (Link to internal BBC site) Trailing of Commercial Products on BBC Public Service Television Channels, Guidelines For Privacy & Cookies Policy
