http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/L/LINDSAY_LOHAN?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT PM EDT Lohan's Dad: Lindsay Hooked on OxyContin Lohan's Dad: Lindsay Hooked on OxyContin Lohan Is Photographed Slumped in Car AP ShowBiz News: Lohan, Fat Joe, More Dad: Lindsay Hooked on OxyContin Harry Potter Theme Park Headed to Fla. New 'Potter' to Open Sooner Than Planned Brosnan, Wife Helps Honolulu School Kids Audrey Hepburn Dress Auctioned in NYC LOS ANGELES (AP) -- Lindsay Lohan's estranged father says she suffers from multiple addictions, including alcohol and the painkiller OxyContin, the Web site E! Online reported Wednesday. The 20-year-old actress checked into rehab Monday following a weekend that included crashing her Mercedes, being arrested for suspicion of driving under the influence and being photographed slumped in the passenger seat of a friend's car. This is her second rehab stint this year. "I spoke to the people treating Lindsay, because I wanted to make sure she was getting the right care," Michael Lohan told E! Online. "And I'm satisfied they are doing the right thing for her, helping her detox from the painkillers and things. That's a very important step." Lindsay Lohan's publicist, Leslie Sloane Zelnik, did not immediately return an after-hours call and e-mail from The Associated Press on Wednesday. Michael Lohan was released from a New York state prison in March after serving almost two years for driving while intoxicated and other charges. He said he is studying to become a drug-rehab counselor with the faith-based organization Teen Challenge. Before entering rehab, the actress was scheduled to start work this week on "Poor Things," a comedy featuring Shirley MacLaine, who is also a producer on the movie. MacLaine and co-producer Rob Hickman said in a statement Wednesday that Lohan still wants to work on the project. "We are trying to rearrange the shooting schedule to facilitate her working at the end of the shoot to coincide with the completion of her rehabilitation," the statement said. In other events swirling around Lohan, who turns 21 on July 2, authorities who have been conducting undercover operations at trendy celebrity watering holes in recent weeks are seeking to find out if she was served alcohol before her weekend car crash. California Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control investigators also want to know if Lohan or others were served after hours, agency spokesman John Carr said. Videos show Lohan leaving Hollywood's Les Deux club at 3:30 a.m. Alcohol cannot be served in California after 2 a.m. The Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control told the Beverly Hills Police Department it wants to review witness reports and other evidence to determine if a formal investigation is warranted, Carr said. Les Deux owner Lonnie Moore said in a statement that Lohan stayed late having dinner and waiting for friends, and wasn't drinking. Associated Press Writer Jeff Wilson contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SPAM_ARREST?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Man Described As a Top Spammer Arrested AP Legal Affairs Writer GoDaddy Agrees to Run Domains in Limbo Traffic Up on Gasoline Price Web Sites Feds: BetOnSports Founder Meant to Flee Bills Add E-Mail to Sex Offender Lists CNN Buys Stake in Internet Broadcasting (AP) -- A 27-year-old man described as one of the world's most prolific spammers was arrested Wednesday, and federal authorities said computer users across the Web could notice a decrease in the amount of junk e-mail. Robert Alan Soloway is accused of using networks of compromised "zombie" computers to send out millions upon millions of spam e-mails. "He's one of the top 10 spammers in the world," said Tim Cranton, a Microsoft Corp. lawyer who is senior director of the company's Worldwide Internet Safety Programs. "He's a huge problem for our customers. This is a very good day." A federal grand jury last week returned a 35-count indictment against Soloway charging him with mail fraud, wire fraud, e-mail fraud, aggravated identity theft and money laundering. Soloway pleaded not guilty Wednesday afternoon to all charges after a judge determined that - even with four bank accounts seized by the government - he was sufficiently well off to pay for his own lawyer. He has been living in a ritzy apartment and drives an expensive Mercedes convertible, said prosecutor Kathryn Warma. Prosecutors are seeking to have him forfeit $773,000 they say he made from his business, Newport Internet Marketing Corp. A public defender who represented him for Wednesday's hearing declined to comment. Prosecutors say Soloway used computers infected with malicious code to send out millions of junk e-mails since 2003. The computers are called "zombies" because owners typically have no idea their machines have been infected. He continued his activities even after Microsoft won a $7 million civil judgment against him in 2005 and the operator of a small Internet service provider in Oklahoma won a $10 million judgment, prosecutors said. U.S. Attorney Jeff Sullivan said Wednesday that the case is the first in the country in which federal prosecutors have used identity theft statutes to prosecute a spammer for taking over someone else's Internet domain name. Soloway could face decades in prison, though prosecutors said they have not calculated what guideline sentencing range he might face. The investigation began when the authorities began receiving hundreds of complaints about Soloway, who had been featured on a list of known spammers kept by The Spamhaus Project, an international anti-spam organization. The Santa Barbara County, Calif., Department of Social Services said it was spending $1,000 a week to fight the spam it was receiving, and other businesses and individuals complained of having their reputations damaged when it appeared spam was originating from their computers. "This is not just a nuisance. This is way beyond a nuisance," Warma said. Soloway used the networks of compromised computers to send out unsolicited bulk e-mails urging people to use his Internet marketing company to advertise their products, authorities said. People who clicked on a link in the e-mail were directed to his Web site. There, Soloway advertised his ability to send out as many as 20 million e-mail advertisements over 15 days for $495, the indictment said. The Spamhaus Project rejoiced at his arrest. "Soloway has been a long-term nuisance on the Internet - both in terms of the spam he sent, and the people he duped to use his spam service," organizers wrote on Spamhaus.org. Soloway remained in federal detention pending a hearing Monday.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IPOD_ROBOT?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Japanese Robot Dances to iPod Music (AP) -- A new Japanese robot twists and rolls to iPod tunes in an intricate dance based on complex mathematics, a technology developers said will one day enable robots to move about spontaneously instead of following preprogrammed motions. Equipped with Kenwood Corp. speaker systems, Tokyo-based venture ZMP Inc.'s 14-inch long Miuro robot - which looks like a white ball wedged between two halves of an egg - wheels about in time with music from an iPod portable player, which locks into the machine. At a demonstration in Tokyo on Thursday, the 11-pound Miuro pivoted about on a stage in time to beats of a pop music track. Its dance wasn't preprogrammed, but generated by the robot itself. Scientists involved in the robot's development believe the technology could one day lead to robots capable of spontaneous motion. Miuro uses algorithms, or mathematical rules, to analyze music and translate the beats into dances, according to ZMP President Hisashi Taniguchi. "We aim to create a new form of life that moves freely and spontaneously in ways human beings can't predict," Taniguchi said. "We're hoping to turn Miuro into the ultimate virtual pet," he said. Unlike older Miuros, which hit stores last August, the new prototype is fitted with software based on what scientists call chaotic itinerancy, a mathematical pattern similar to the movements of a bee circling from flower to flower as it collects nectar. That allows the new Miuro to act spontaneously and unpredictably - "just like a child playing," said Tokyo University researcher Takashi Ikegami, who developed the software. Other improvements will let users set the Miuro like an alarm clock so it wheels into the bedroom and blasts music at a certain time, for example, according to Taniguchi. Future versions of the Miuro will also use inbuilt sensors to proactively seek out people to play tunes to, he said. ZMP has already shipped 500 units of the original Miuro, which isn't equipped with the intelligent software but instead responds to a remote-control handheld manipulator. The 108,800 yen ($895) original Miuro can also receive wireless signals from a personal computer to play iTunes and other stored digital files. Separately sold options add a camera that beams images to PCs or lets owners control their Miuros by mobile phones. Miuro, short for "music innovation based on utility robot technology," is only on sale in Japan. ZMP did not give a date for the release of the new prototype.
http://hosted.ap.org/ News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Iraq Suicide Blast Leaves Up to 25 Dead A-P correspondent Steve Hurst reports there's been a suicide bombing west of Baghdad. (watch for dating) Chaotic Scene in Baghdad on Memorial Day Searching With Missing Soldiers' Platoon A War Widow's Story The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Al-Sadr's Followers Becoming Less Unified end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Cease-Fire Eyed to Stop Violence in Iraq Bush Calls for Global Emissions Goals Iraq Suicide Blast Leaves Up to 25 Dead Turkish General: Ready for PKK Strike Bush Sees South Korea Model for Iraq Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) (AP) -- A suicide bomber hit a police recruiting center Thursday in Fallujah, killing as many as 25 people, police said. The U.S. military said only one policeman was killed and eight were wounded. U.S. forces backed by helicopter gunships clashed with suspected al-Qaida gunmen in western Baghdad in an engagement that lasted several hours. The American military also reported the deaths of three more soldiers, two killed Wednesday in a roadside bombing in Baghdad and one who died of wounds from a roadside bomb attack northwest of the capital Tuesday. At least 122 American forces have died in May, the third-deadliest month of the Iraq conflict. U.S. forces also continued a search for five Britons who were kidnapped Tuesday in Baghdad, as well as for two of its soldiers who have been missing since a May 12 ambush south of the capital. The Fallujah suicide bomber killed at least 10 policemen in the attack, which occurred about 11 a.m., according to a police official in the city who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to release the information. The rest of the dead were civilians, many of them in line seeking jobs as policemen. He said as many as 50 were wounded. Fallujah General Hospital had received 15 bodies and 10 wounded, according to a doctor there, who would not allow the use of his name because he feared retribution. The physician said he believed other casualties were taken to the nearby Jordanian Hospital and private clinics. A member of the Fallujah city council, who also asked for anonymity for fear of attack by insurgents, said there were at least 20 killed and 25 injured. The coordination of information in Fallujah was particularly difficult because the mobile telephone system has been working only sporadically. Maj. Jeff Pool of the Multi-National Force-West said the Anbar province governor's office and the provincial police put the total number of dead at one Iraqi policeman, with six police and two civilians wounded in Fallujah, 40 miles west of Baghdad. Police said the bomber detonated explosives in his vest at the third of four checkpoints, standing among recruits who were lining up to apply for jobs on the force. The center had only opened Saturday in a primary school in eastern Fallujah. The U.S. military and Iraqi army and police were running the center along with members of Anbar Salvation Council, a loose grouping of Sunni tribes that have banded together to fight al-Qaida. Police stations and recruiting posts have been a favorite target of Sunni insurgents and al-Qaida throughout the war. The fighting in western Baghdad's Amariyah neighborhood exploded after residents called for U.S. help. Members of al-Qaida, who consider the district part of their so-called Islamic State of Iraq, were preventing students from attending final exams, shooting randomly and forcing residents to stay in their homes, according to an official of the district council. He spoke on condition of anonymity, fearing retribution from al-Qaida. Clashes continued into the afternoon, and the council official said the al-Qaida leader in the region, known as Haji Hameed, was killed and 45 other fighters detained. There was no immediate word on the fighting from the U.S. military. U.S. forces, meanwhile, pressed on with the search for five kidnapped Britons, and a procession of mourners, some of them women wailing and beating their chests, marched through Sadr City behind a small bus carrying the coffins of two people who police said were killed in a U.S. helicopter strike before dawn. The U.S. military said it had no report of airstrikes in Sadr City and that there were no civilian casualties in the second day of a search for the Britons, who were abducted Tuesday from a Finance Ministry data processing building in eastern Baghdad. A U.S. military statement, however, said U.S. and Iraqi forces had arrested two "members of the secret cell terrorist network" in Sadr City. There was no mention of fatalities. AP Television News videotape from Sadr City showed the coffins of the victims atop a small bus with men and women walking behind, crying. A young boy could be seen sitting next to the coffins. A car in the area was punctured with big holes, as if hit by an airstrike. A police officer in Sadr City, who refused to allow use of his name because he feared retribution, said the helicopter hit a house and car at 4:30 a.m., killing two elderly people sleeping on the roof of their home - a common practice in Iraq's extreme heat through late spring and summer. The officer said a 13-year-old boy was wounded. Also in Sadr City raids, which the U.S. has been conducting with a select unit of Iraqi army forces, Shiite cleric Abdul-Zahra al-Suwaidi claimed his home was raided and ransacked by American forces at 3 a.m. Thursday. The military said it had no report of the incident. Al-Suwaidi, who runs the Sadr City political office of radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, said he was sleeping elsewhere at the time of the raid, expecting that he would be targeted. He said his home was badly damaged and a small amount of money was taken. Dozens of U.S. Humvees and Bradley fighting vehicles had taken up positions around Sadr City at nightfall Wednesday. The five kidnapped Britons included four bodyguards working for the Montreal-based security firm GardaWorld and one employee of BearingPoint, a U.S.-based management consulting firm. In Washington, Brig. Gen. Perry Wiggins, deputy director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the military believed a helicopter that crashed Monday north of Baghdad was brought down by small-arms fire. The Islamic State of Iraq, an al-Qaida front group, claimed responsibility. Wiggins also said that more than 100 patrols a day were being launched to search for two missing troops who vanished after a May 12 ambush near Mahmoudiya, south of Baghdad. Four Americans and one Iraqi soldier were killed in the attack and the body of another American was later found in the Euphrates River. "Our determination and resolve to locate our missing soldiers is unwavering," Wiggins said.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT TB Patient in Denver for Treatment TB Patient Says He Wasn't Told Not to Leave U.S. Q and A: Tuberculosis Scare (AP) -- A tuberculosis patient with a rare and dangerous form of the disease arrived at Denver's National Jewish Medical and Research Center for treatment Thursday, walking under his own power and telling hospital officials he felt fine. The 31-year-old Georgia man, who is under the first federal quarantine since 1963, flew from Atlanta with his wife and federal marshals early Thursday, hospital spokesman William Allstetter said. He looked healthy and tan, and "he said he still felt fine," Allstetter said. Doctors plan to begin treating the man immediately with two antibiotics, one oral and one intravenous. He also will undergo a basic physical exam, a test to evaluate how infectious he is and a CT scan and lung X-ray, Allstetter said. Doctors hope to also determine where he contracted the disease. He will be kept in a special unit with two rooms and a ventilation system, Allstetter said. "He may not leave that room much for several weeks," Allstetter said. The man, who has not been publicly identified beyond his age, knew he had TB when he flew from Atlanta to Europe in mid-May for his wedding and honeymoon, but he didn't find out until he was already there that it was an extensively drug-resistant strain considered especially dangerous. Despite warnings from federal health officials not to board another long flight, the man flew home for treatment. Health officials in North America and Europe are trying to track down about 80 passengers who sat near him on the two trans-Atlantic flights, and they want passenger lists from four shorter flights the man took while in Europe. Patients on the shorter flights are not expected to be as much at risk, health officials said. Among those being tested are more than two dozen University of South Carolina Aiken students, school spokeswoman Jennifer Lake said Thursday. Two were apparently sitting near the man, possibly in the same row, she said. One of those students, Laney Wiggins, said she is awaiting her skin test results, expected Friday. "I'm very nervous," Wiggins told The (Columbia) State newspaper. "It's kind of sad that this is overshadowing the wonderful time we had in Europe." The man flew to Paris on May 12 aboard Air France Flight 385, also listed as Delta Air Lines codeshare Flight 8517, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He and his bride also took four shorter flights while in Europe - Paris to Athens on May 14; Athens to Thira Island May 16; Mykonos Island to Athens May 21; and Athens to Rome May 21 - but CDC officials said there was less risk of infection during the shorter hops compared to the trans-Atlantic flights, which each lasted eight hours or more. It was while the man was in Rome that he learned further U.S. tests had determined his TB was the rare, extensively drug-resistant form, far more dangerous than he knew. They told him turn himself over to Italian health officials and not to fly on any commercial airlines. Instead, on May 24, the man flew from Rome to Prague on Czech Air Flight 0727, then flew to Montreal aboard Czech Air Flight 0104 and drove into the U.S., according to CDC officials. Officials are trying to contact people who sat within five rows of him on the two longest flights for testing. Other passengers are not considered at high risk of infection because tests indicated the amount of TB bacteria in the man was low, said Dr. Martin Cetron, director of the CDC's division of global migration and quarantine. The infected man told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that doctors initially did not order him not to fly and only suggested he put off his long-planned wedding. "We headed off to Greece thinking everything's fine," he told the newspaper. Dr. Charles Daley, head of the infectious disease division at National Jewish Hopsital, said the hospital has treated two other patients with what appears to be the same strain of tuberculosis since 2000, although that strain had not been identified and named at the time. He said the patients had improved enough to be released. "With drug-resistant tuberculosis, it's quite a challenge to treat this," Daley told CNN Thursday. "The cure rate that's been reported in other places is very low. It's about 30 percent for XDR-TB." "This is a different patient, though. We're told that this is very early in the course, and most of the time when we get patients that it's very extensive and very far advanced. So I think we're more optimistic," he said. "We're aiming for cure. We know it's an uphill battle, but we hope to get there." Associated Press writers Mike Stobbe, Greg Bluestein and Daniel Yee in Atlanta contributed to this report. Public Health Agency of Canada:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TELECOM_CONTRACT?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Government Awards $20B Telecom Contract (AP) -- Five companies - AT&T, Level 3 Communications, Qwest Communications, Sprint Nextel and Verizon - on Thursday were awarded a federal telecommunications contract worth up to $20 billion over 10 years. The winners of the so-called Networx Enterprise contract must now compete with each other to win business from agencies looking to improve their voice, data and other telecom services. It's the second telecom contract awarded by the General Services Administration in about two months. In late March, Qwest Communications International Inc., AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. were winners of the much larger Networx Universal contract, the government's largest telecom contract ever awarded. That deal is potentially worth up to $48 billion over a decade. Universal requires companies to not only maintain current agencies' needs, but also offer advanced services, such as Internet-based telephone service, network security and video and Web conferencing, domestically and internationally. Enterprise has far fewer requirements than the much larger Universal contract and covers a smaller geographic area. In morning trading, shares of AT&T rose 25 cents to $41.23, while shares of Level 3 Communications Inc. fell a penny to $5.90 and shares of Qwest gained 13 cents to $10.40. Sprint Nextel Corp.'s stock price rose 11 cents to $22.96, while Verizon's declined 10 cents to $43.72.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RUSSIA_PUTIN?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Putin: U.S. Has Triggered New Arms Race Suspect: U.K. Involved in Ex-Spy's Death Putin: U.S. Has Triggered New Arms Race Russian Diplomat: New Arms Race Starting U.S. Senators Back Missile Defense Plan Russia Says New ICBM Can Beat Any System Putin Blasts U.S. Missile Defense Plan Latest Photos from Russia (AP) -- President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that tests of new Russian missiles were a response to the planned deployment of U.S. missile defense installations and other forces in Europe, suggesting Washington has triggered a new arms race. In a clear reference to the United States, he harshly criticized "imperialism" in global affairs and warned that Russia will strengthen its military potential to maintain a global strategic balance. "It wasn't us who initiated a new round of arms race," Putin said when asked about Russia's missile tests at a news conference after talks in the Kremlin with Greek President Karolos Papoulias. Putin described Tuesday's tests of a new ballistic missile capable of carrying multiple nuclear warheads and a new cruise missile as part of the Russian response to the planned deployment of new U.S. military bases and missile defense sites in ex-Soviet satellites in Central and Eastern Europe. He assailed the United States and other NATO members for failing to ratify an amended version of the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, which limits the deployment of heavy non-nuclear weapons around the continent. "We have signed and ratified the CFE and are fully implementing it. We have pulled out all our heavy weapons from the European part of Russia to (locations) behind the Ural Mountains and cut our military by 300,000 men," Putin said. "And what about our partners? They are filling Eastern Europe with new weapons. A new base in Bulgaria, another one in Romania, a (missile defense) site in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic," he said. "What we are supposed to do? We can't just sit back and look at that." Putin and other Russian officials have repeatedly rejected U.S. assurances that the planned missile defense installations are meant to counter a potential threat from nations such as Iran and pose no danger to Russia. Putin reaffirmed his warning that Russia would opt out of the CFE treaty altogether if NATO nations fail to ratify its amended version. "Either you ratify the treaty and start observing it, or we will opt out of it," Putin said. In remarks clearly directed against Washington, Putin blasted those "who want to dictate their will to all others regardless of international norms and law." "It's dangerous and harmful," he added. "Norms of the international law were replaced with political expediency. We view it as diktat and imperialism." Russia this week initiated an international conference to be held in Austria in early June to discuss the situation around the CFE treaty. Putin described the tests of new missiles conducted by Russia on Tuesday as a necessary response to the Western action. "There is no reason to fear these actions by Russia, they aren't aggressive. It's merely a response to tough and unfounded unilateral actions by our partners," he said. "These actions are aimed at preserving a global balance." In one missile test Tuesday, a prototype of new Russia's intercontinental ballistic missile, called the RS-24, was fired from a mobile launcher at the Plesetsk launch site in northwestern Russia and its test warhead landed on target 3,400 miles away on the Far Eastern Kamchatka Peninsula, officials said. Russia's military also tested a new cruise missile based on the existing short-range Iskander missile. "We will keep modernizing our potential," Putin said.
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CIVIL_UNIONS?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT N.H. Governor Signs Civil Unions Law Australian Gay Bar Can Bar Heterosexuals Russian Police Detain Gay Activists Gays Flock to Fla. Panhandle for Holiday Romney: I'm Not Intolerant of Gays Hearing Sought Over Linguists' Discharge N.H. (AP) -- Gay couples in New Hampshire will be able to join in civil unions starting next year under a bill Gov. John Lynch signed into law Thursday. "We in New Hampshire have had a long and proud tradition taking the lead and opposing discrimination," Lynch said. "Today that tradition continues." Couples who enter civil unions will have the same rights, responsibilities and obligations as married couples. Same-sex unions from other states also would be recognized if they were legal in the state where they were performed. Legislators who gathered for the bill signing packed the governor's chambers and overflowed into an adjoining sitting room. They snapped photos and burst into applause as he signed it. "I've listened and I've heard all the arguments," said Lynch, a Democrat. "I do not believe that this bill threatens marriage. I believe that this is a matter of conscience and fairness." Episcopal Bishop V. Gene Robinson was among those attending. Although his consecration in 2003 as the first openly gay bishop in the Episcopal Church divided the worldwide Anglican union to which it belongs, Robinson and his longtime partner plan to take advantage of civil unions. "This is not a radical departure," Robinson said of the bill. "This is a real confirmation of what New Hampshire has always been about: the freedom of its own citizens and fairness for everyone." Robinson said he will not direct Episcopal priests in the state to bless same-sex unions, letting priests decide that individually. Such blessings have been another divisive issue for Episcopalians and the Anglican union. "That authority belongs to them and I would not in any way ask them not to do that. ... Just like in marriages, every priest will have the option to bless or not to bless," Robinson said. Massachusetts alone among the U.S. states allows gay marriage. Connecticut, Vermont, New Jersey, Maine, California and Washington allow either civil unions or domestic partnerships, and Oregon will join the list with New Hampshire in January. Hawaii extends certain spousal rights to same-sex couples and cohabiting heterosexual pairs.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/ECONOMY?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Economy Nearly Stalled in First Quarter Northwest Exits Bankruptcy Protection U.S. Dollar Slips Against Euro Treasurys Drop on Chicago PMI Data Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8B Government Awards $20B Telecom Contract Stocks Up After Takeover News, GDP Data Economy Nearly Stalled in First Quarter S&P 500 Index Closes at Record High Pulte Among Big Stock Movers Clinton Outlines Broad Economic Vision Iranian Gas Price Hike Shows Weaknesses Wall Street to Eye Inflation, Jobs Data Japan Consumer Prices Down 0.1 Percent Automakers Question Fuel Proposal in Ads (AP) -- The economy nearly stalled with growth slowing to a pace of just 0.6 percent. That was the worst three-month showing in over four years. The new reading on the gross domestic product, released by the Commerce Department Thursday, showed that economic growth in the January-through-March quarter was much weaker. Government statisticians slashed by more than half their first estimate of a 1.3 percent growth rate for the quarter. The main culprits for the downgrade: the bloated trade deficit and businesses cutting investment in supplies of the goods they hold in inventories. "We are still keeping our head above water - barely," said economist Ken Mayland of ClearView Economics. For nearly a year, the economy has been enduring a stretch of subpar economic growth due mostly to a sharp housing slump. That in turn has made some businesses act more cautiously in their spending and investing. The economy's 0.6 percent growth rate in the opening quarter of this year marked a big loss of momentum from the 2.5 percent pace logged in the final quarter of last year. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke doesn't believe the economy will slide into recession this year, nor do Bush administration officials. But ex-Fed chief Alan Greenspan has put the odds at one in three. On Wall Street, investors took the weak GDP showing in stride. The Dow Jones industrials were up 22 points and the Nasdaq gained 14 points in morning trading. The first-quarter's performance was the weakest since the final quarter of 2002, when the economy was recovering from a recession. At that time, GDP eked out a 0.2 percent growth rate. Economists were predicting the first-quarter performance this year would be downgraded, but not as much as it did. They were calling for a 0.8 percent pace. GDP measures the value of all goods and services produced in the United States. It is considered the best measure of the country's economic fitness. In other economic news, the Labor Department reported that fewer people signed up for unemployment benefits last week. New filings dropped by 4,000 to 310,000. That suggests the employment climate is weathering well the economy's sluggish spell. Another report showed that construction spending edged up by 0.1 percent in April, down from a 0.6 percent gain in the previous month. Spending by private builders on nonresidential projects and spending by the government on big projects each climbed to all time highs in April but that strength was tempered by continued weakness in residential construction. In the GDP report, many economists believe the first quarter will be the low point for this year. They expect growth will improve but still be sluggish. The National Association for Business Economics predicts the economy will expand at a 2.3 percent pace in the April-to-June quarter. In the first quarter, there was a larger trade deficit than first thought. That ended up shaving a full percentage point from the GDP. Businesses cut back on inventory investment as they tried to make sure unsold stocks of goods didn't get out of whack with customer demand. That lopped off nearly a percentage point to first quarter GDP. Those were the biggest factors behind the government slicing its initial GDP estimate released a month ago by as much as it did. The sour housing market also restrained overall economic activity. Investment in home building was cut by 15.4 percent, on an annualized basis, However, that wasn't as deep a cut as the 17 percent annualized drop initially estimated. And, it wasn't as severe as the 19.8 percent annualized drop seen in the final quarter of last year. Even so, there is no doubt that troubled housing market is one of the biggest problems for the economy. Although some businesses tightened the belt consumers did not. That helped to prevent the economy from stalling out altogether. Consumers boosted their spending by a 4.4 percent growth rate the most in a year. Consumer spending accounts for a major chunk of economic activity. Some economists wonder how much interest consumers will have in continued brisk spending, however, given rising gasoline prices that have topped $3 a gallon in many markets. More money spent filling up the gas tank leaves less to spend on other things. One of the reasons consumers have stayed so resilient even as the housing market has been stuck in a rut for a year is because the job market has been good. Employers - still enjoying profits - are keeping a close watch on spending but they are not drastically clamping down on hiring. Companies profits gained a bit of ground One measure showed after tax profits rising by 1 percent, up from 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter. An inflation gauge tied to the GDP report and closely watched by the Fed showed that core prices - excluding food and energy - rose at a rate of 2.2 percent That was unchanged from an initial estimate but up from a 1.8 percent pace in the fourth quarter. The Federal Reserve's key interest rate has been at 5.25 percent for nearly a year. Many economists predict the rate probably will stay right where it is through the rest of this year.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TEN_FRENCH_OPEN?SITE=OHCIN&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AM EDT Lleyton Hewitt Advances at French Open Lleyton Hewitt Advances at French Open U.S. Men Make Early Exit at French Open Federer Eyes Completing Career Slam Elena Dementieva Wins Istanbul Cup Mauresmo Loses in Strasbourg Final (AP) -- Lleyton Hewitt rallied from two sets down for the fourth time in his career Thursday and beat 2004 champion Gaston Gaudio 4-6, 3-6, 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 in the second round of the French Open. Hewitt, a two-time Grand Slam champion, missed two months because of a back injury and returned at the Rome Masters in early May. He broke his Argentine opponent in the third and seventh games of the third set, and then again to open each of the two remaining sets. "He's got to be one of the toughest second-round players to play," said Hewitt, who lost to Gaudio in the 2004 French Open quarterfinals. "The first two sets he played fantastic." The 14th-seeded Australian made 25 unforced errors sets, but limited that to 19 in the final three. He also had 20 aces, while Gaudio double-faulted 13 times. "I felt like I had a lot of opportunities to go up a break Hewitt said. Hewitt stayed on course for a fourth-round rematch with two-time defending champion Rafael Nadal at Roland Garros. He lost to Nadal at the same stage last year. Hewitt has won the U.S. Open and Wimbledon and reached the final at the Australian Open. He has made the quarterfinals twice at the French Open, the last time losing to eventual champion Gaudio in 2004. Gaudio, who had reached the third round in Paris for five straight years, has only once won consecutive matches this year. Maria Sharapova, who missed nearly two months of the season because of an injured right shoulder, advanced to the third round in the women's draw, easily beating Jill Craybas of the United States 6-2, 6-1. "I feel it at times in the match," Sharapova said. "I try not to think about it." Up 2-1 at the start, Craybas held three break points at love-40. But Sharapova won the next 11 points, holding serve with the help of three forehand winners in a row, then breaking Craybas at love when the American dumped a volley into the net with the entire court open. In the second set, Craybas broke the second-ranked Russian in the sixth game, smiling and raising her hands after the winning point to accept the crowd's applause. But Sharapova broke right back to advance. Australian Open champion Serena Williams raced through the first set but was stretched in the second against Milagros Sequera, finally winning 6-0, 7-6 (3). No. 7 Ana Ivanovic defeated Sania Mirza 6-1, 6-4. No. 14 Patty Schnyder, No. 17 Katarina Srebotnik and No. 25 Lucie Safarova also advanced. On the men's side, No. 6 Novak Djokovic also reached the third round, beating Laurent Recouderc of France 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1. No. 16 Marcos Baghdatis, the 2006 Australian Open finalist, No. 7 Ivan Ljubicic and No. 20 Jarkko Nieminen also won. "Everybody now expects me to be the guy who can hurt the best two players in the world," said Djokovic, who has won three titles this year - including one on clay. Later Thursday, Nadal was to face Flavio Cipolla in the second round. Amelie Mauresmo also was scheduled to play. On Wednesday, top-ranked Roger Federer advanced to the third round, stopping Thierry Ascione of France 6-1, 6-2, 7-6 (8). The 10-time Grand Slam champion breezed through the first two sets, but as conditions worsened and the sun began to fade, so did his control of the match. "I know that they want to get their match over and done with," Federer said. Organizers have been trying to squeeze in extra matches because of the rain delays on the first two days of the tournament. "What I don't like is if they think ... I'm the favorite, I should win this in straight sets," said Federer, who finally walked off court at 9:15 p.m. "What about if it doesn't turn out this way?"
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SPAM_ARREST?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 8:03 AM EDT Man described as a top spammer arrested AP Legal Affairs Writer GoDaddy agrees to run domains in limbo Traffic up on gasoline price Web sites Feds: BetOnSports founder meant to flee Bills add e-mail to sex offender lists CNN buys stake in Internet Broadcasting (AP) -- A 27-year-old man described as one of the world's most prolific spammers was arrested Wednesday, and federal authorities said computer users across the Web could notice a decrease in the amount of junk e-mail. Robert Alan Soloway is accused of using networks of compromised "zombie" computers to send out millions upon millions of spam e-mails. "He's one of the top 10 spammers in the world," said Tim Cranton, a Microsoft Corp. lawyer who is senior director of the company's Worldwide Internet Safety Programs. "He's a huge problem for our customers. This is a very good day." A federal grand jury last week returned a 35-count indictment against Soloway charging him with mail fraud, wire fraud, e-mail fraud, aggravated identity theft and money laundering. Soloway pleaded not guilty Wednesday afternoon to all charges after a judge determined that - even with four bank accounts seized by the government - he was sufficiently well off to pay for his own lawyer. He has been living in a ritzy apartment and drives an expensive Mercedes convertible, said prosecutor Kathryn Warma. Prosecutors are seeking to have him forfeit $773,000 they say he made from his business, Newport Internet Marketing Corp. A public defender who represented him for Wednesday's hearing declined to comment. Prosecutors say Soloway used computers infected with malicious code to send out millions of junk e-mails since 2003. The computers are called "zombies" because owners typically have no idea their machines have been infected. He continued his activities even after Microsoft won a $7 million civil judgment against him in 2005 and the operator of a small Internet service provider in Oklahoma won a $10 million judgment, prosecutors said. U.S. Attorney Jeff Sullivan said Wednesday that the case is the first in the country in which federal prosecutors have used identity theft statutes to prosecute a spammer for taking over someone else's Internet domain name. Soloway could face decades in prison, though prosecutors said they have not calculated what guideline sentencing range he might face. The investigation began when the authorities began receiving hundreds of complaints about Soloway, who had been featured on a list of known spammers kept by The Spamhaus Project, an international anti-spam organization. The Santa Barbara County, Calif., Department of Social Services said it was spending $1,000 a week to fight the spam it was receiving, and other businesses and individuals complained of having their reputations damaged when it appeared spam was originating from their computers. "This is not just a nuisance. This is way beyond a nuisance," Warma said. Soloway used the networks of compromised computers to send out unsolicited bulk e-mails urging people to use his Internet marketing company to advertise their products, authorities said. People who clicked on a link in the e-mail were directed to his Web site. There, Soloway advertised his ability to send out as many as 20 million e-mail advertisements over 15 days for $495, the indictment said. The Spamhaus Project rejoiced at his arrest. "Soloway has been a long-term nuisance on the Internet - both in terms of the spam he sent, and the people he duped to use his spam service," organizers wrote on Spamhaus.org. Soloway remained in federal detention pending a hearing Monday. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IRAQ?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 12:21 PM EDT Iraq residents rise up against al-Qaida A-P correspondent Steve Hurst reports residents of the Baghdad neighborhood looked to U-S forces for help. Chaotic Scene in Baghdad on Memorial Day Searching With Missing Soldiers' Platoon A War Widow's Story The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Al-Sadr's Followers Becoming Less Unified end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Bush calls for global emissions goals Iraq residents rise up against al-Qaida Cease-fire eyed to stop violence in Iraq Turkish general: Ready for PKK strike Bush sees South Korea model for Iraq Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) (AP) -- A battle raged in west Baghdad on Thursday after residents rose up against al-Qaida and called for U.S. military help to end random gunfire that forced people to huddle indoors and threats that kept students from final exams, a member of the district council said. Elsewhere, a suicide bomber hit a police recruiting center in Fallujah, killing as many as 25 people, police said. The U.S. military said only one policeman was killed and eight were wounded. The American military also reported the deaths of three more soldiers, two killed Wednesday in a roadside bombing in Baghdad and one who died of wounds from a roadside bomb attack northwest of the capital Tuesday. At least 122 American forces have died in May, the third-deadliest month of the Iraq conflict. U.S. forces backed by helicopter gunships clashed with suspected al-Qaida gunmen in western Baghdad's primarily Sunni Muslim Amariyah neighborhood in an engagement that lasted several hours, said the district councilman, who would not allow use of his name for fear of al-Qaida retribution. Casualty figures were not immediately available and there was not immediate word from the U.S. military on the engagement. But the councilman said the al-Qaida leader in the Amariyah district, known as Haji Hameed, was killed and 45 other fighters were detained. Members of al-Qaida, who consider the district part of their so-called Islamic State of Iraq, were preventing students from attending final exams, shooting randomly and forcing residents to stay in their homes, the councilman said. U.S. forces also continued a search for five Britons who were kidnapped Tuesday in Baghdad, as well as for two of its soldiers who have been missing since a May 12 ambush south of the capital. The Fallujah suicide bomber killed at least 10 policemen in the attack, which occurred about 11 a.m., according to a police official in the city who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to release the information. The rest of the dead were civilians, many of them in line seeking jobs as policemen. He said as many as 50 were wounded. Fallujah General Hospital had received 15 bodies and 10 wounded, according to a doctor there, who would not allow the use of his name because he feared retribution. The physician said he believed other casualties were taken to the nearby Jordanian Hospital and private clinics. A member of the Fallujah city council, who also asked for anonymity for fear of attack by insurgents, said there were at least 20 killed and 25 injured. The coordination of information in Fallujah was particularly difficult because the mobile telephone system has been working only sporadically. Maj. Jeff Pool of the Multi-National Force-West said the Anbar province governor's office and the provincial police put the total number of dead at one Iraqi policeman, with six police and two civilians wounded in Fallujah, 40 miles west of Baghdad. Police said the bomber detonated explosives in his vest at the third of four checkpoints, standing among recruits who were lining up to apply for jobs on the force. The center had only opened Saturday in a primary school in eastern Fallujah. The U.S. military and Iraqi army and police were running the center along with members of Anbar Salvation Council, a loose grouping of Sunni tribes that have banded together to fight al-Qaida. Police stations and recruiting posts have been a favorite target of Sunni insurgents and al-Qaida throughout the war. U.S. forces, meanwhile, pressed on with the search for five kidnapped Britons, and a procession of mourners, some of them women wailing and beating their chests, marched through Sadr City behind a small bus carrying the coffins of two people who police said were killed in a U.S. helicopter strike before dawn. The U.S. military said it had no report of airstrikes in Sadr City and that there were no civilian casualties in the second day of a search for the Britons, who were abducted Tuesday from a Finance Ministry data processing building in eastern Baghdad. A U.S. military statement, however, said U.S. and Iraqi forces had arrested two "members of the secret cell terrorist network" in Sadr City. There was no mention of fatalities. AP Television News videotape from Sadr City showed the coffins of the victims atop a small bus with men and women walking behind, crying. A young boy could be seen sitting next to the coffins. A car in the area was punctured with big holes, as if hit by an airstrike. A police officer in Sadr City, who refused to allow use of his name because he feared retribution, said the helicopter hit a house and car at 4:30 a.m., killing two elderly people sleeping on the roof of their home - a common practice in Iraq's extreme heat through late spring and summer. The officer said a 13-year-old boy was wounded. Also in Sadr City raids, which the U.S. has been conducting with a select unit of Iraqi army forces, Shiite cleric Abdul-Zahra al-Suwaidi claimed his home was raided and ransacked by American forces at 3 a.m. Thursday. The military said it had no report of the incident. Al-Suwaidi, who runs the Sadr City political office of radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, said he was sleeping elsewhere at the time of the raid, expecting that he would be targeted. He said his home was badly damaged and a small amount of money was taken. Dozens of U.S. Humvees and Bradley fighting vehicles had taken up positions around Sadr City at nightfall Wednesday. The five kidnapped Britons included four bodyguards working for the Montreal-based security firm GardaWorld and one employee of BearingPoint, a U.S.-based management consulting firm. In Washington, Brig. Gen. Perry Wiggins, deputy director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the military believed a helicopter that crashed Monday north of Baghdad was brought down by small-arms fire. The Islamic State of Iraq, an al-Qaida front group, claimed responsibility. Wiggins also said that more than 100 patrols a day were being launched to search for two missing troops who vanished after a May 12 ambush near Mahmoudiya, south of Baghdad. Four Americans and one Iraqi soldier were killed in the attack and the body of another American was later found in the Euphrates River. "Our determination and resolve to locate our missing soldiers is unwavering," Wiggins said. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 12:53 PM EDT TB patient ID'd as Atlanta attorney, 31 TB Patient Says He Wasn't Told Not to Leave U.S. Q and A: Tuberculosis Scare (AP) -- The tuberculosis patient under the first federal quarantine since 1963 is a 31-year-old personal injury attorney who practices law with his father in Atlanta, a federal law enforcement official said Thursday. The official, who asked to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to talk about the case, identified the patient as Andrew Speaker. A medical official in Atlanta also confirmed the name on condition of anonymity. The man has a rare and dangerous form of tuberculosis that has proved resistant to drugs. He arrived at Denver's National Jewish Medical and Research Center for treatment Thursday, walking under his own power after flying from Atlanta with his wife and federal marshals, hospital spokesman William Allstetter said. He looked healthy and tan, and "he said he still felt fine," Allstetter said. Doctors plan to begin treating the man immediately with two antibiotics, one oral and one intravenous. He also will undergo a basic physical exam, a test to evaluate how infectious he is and a CT scan and lung X-ray, Allstetter said. Doctors hope to also determine where he contracted the disease. He will be kept in a special unit with two rooms and a ventilation system, Allstetter said. "He may not leave that room much for several weeks," Allstetter said. According to a biography posted on a Web site connected with Speaker's law firm, he attended the U.S. Naval Academy, graduated from the University of Georgia with a degree in finance, then attended University of Georgia's law school. His father, Ted Speaker, unsuccessfully ran for a Fulton County Superior Court judgeship in 2004, the same year his son was admitted into the Georgia Bar. Andrew Speaker recently moved from an upscale condominium complex in anticipation of his wedding, former neighbors said. He also wrote in an application to become a board member of his condo association that he was going to Vietnam for five weeks as part of the Rotary club to act as an ambassador. "He's a great guy. Gregarious," said Pam Hood, a former neighbor. "He's a wonderful guy. Just a very, very pleasant man." In a phone interview with the Atlanta Constitution-Journal from an Atlanta hospital earlier this week, he explained that he knew he had TB when he flew from Atlanta to Europe in mid-May for his wedding and honeymoon, but that he didn't find out until he was already there that it was an extensively drug-resistant strain considered especially dangerous. Despite warnings from federal health officials not to board another long flight, he flew home for treatment fearing he wouldn't survive if he didn't reach the U.S. Health officials in North America and Europe are now trying to track down about 80 passengers who sat near him on the two trans-Atlantic flights, and they want passenger lists from four shorter flights he took while in Europe. Patients on the shorter flights are not expected to be as much at risk, health officials said. Among those being tested are more than two dozen University of South Carolina Aiken students, school spokeswoman Jennifer Lake said Thursday. Two were apparently sitting near him, possibly in the same row, she said. One of those students, Laney Wiggins, said she is awaiting her skin test results, expected Friday. "I'm very nervous," Wiggins told The (Columbia) State newspaper. "It's kind of sad that this is overshadowing the wonderful time we had in Europe." The infected man had flown to Paris on May 12 aboard Air France Flight 385, also listed as Delta Air Lines codeshare Flight 8517, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He and his bride also took four shorter flights while in Europe - Paris to Athens on May 14; Athens to Thira Island May 16; Mykonos Island to Athens May 21; and Athens to Rome May 21 - but CDC officials said there was less risk of infection during the shorter hops compared to the trans-Atlantic flights, which each lasted eight hours or more. It was while they were in Rome that he learned further U.S. tests had determined his TB was the rare, extensively drug-resistant form, far more dangerous than he knew. Officials told him turn himself over to Italian health officials and not to fly on any commercial airlines. Instead, on May 24, he flew from Rome to Prague on Czech Air Flight 0727, then flew to Montreal aboard Czech Air Flight 0104 and drove into the U.S., according to CDC officials. Officials are trying to contact people who sat within five rows of him on the two longest flights for testing. Other passengers are not considered at high risk of infection because tests indicated the amount of TB bacteria in the man was low, said Dr. Martin Cetron, director of the CDC's division of global migration and quarantine. The infected man told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he wasn't coughing and that doctors initially did not order him not to fly and only suggested he put off his long-planned wedding. "We headed off to Greece thinking everything's fine," he told the newspaper. Dr. Charles Daley, head of the infectious disease division at National Jewish Hospital, said the hospital has treated two other patients with what appears to be the same strain of tuberculosis since 2000, although that strain had not been identified and named at the time. He said the patients had improved enough to be released. "With drug-resistant tuberculosis, it's quite a challenge to treat this," Daley told CNN Thursday. "The cure rate that's been reported in other places is very low. It's about 30 percent for XDR-TB." "This is a different patient, though. We're told that this is very early in the course, and most of the time when we get patients that it's very extensive and very far advanced. So I think we're more optimistic," he said. "We're aiming for cure. We know it's an uphill battle, but we hope to get there." Associated Press writers Lara Jakes Jordan in Washington, and Mike Stobbe, Greg Bluestein and Daniel Yee in Atlanta contributed to this report. Public Health Agency of Canada: Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/I/IPOD_ROBOT?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 8:35 AM EDT Japanese robot dances to iPod music (AP) -- A new Japanese robot twists and rolls to iPod tunes in an intricate dance based on complex mathematics, a technology developers said will one day enable robots to move about spontaneously instead of following preprogrammed motions. Equipped with Kenwood Corp. speaker systems, Tokyo-based venture ZMP Inc.'s 14-inch long Miuro robot - which looks like a white ball wedged between two halves of an egg - wheels about in time with music from an iPod portable player, which locks into the machine. At a demonstration in Tokyo on Thursday, the 11-pound Miuro pivoted about on a stage in time to beats of a pop music track. Its dance wasn't preprogrammed, but generated by the robot itself. Scientists involved in the robot's development believe the technology could one day lead to robots capable of spontaneous motion. Miuro uses algorithms, or mathematical rules, to analyze music and translate the beats into dances, according to ZMP President Hisashi Taniguchi. "We aim to create a new form of life that moves freely and spontaneously in ways human beings can't predict," Taniguchi said. "We're hoping to turn Miuro into the ultimate virtual pet," he said. Unlike older Miuros, which hit stores last August, the new prototype is fitted with software based on what scientists call chaotic itinerancy, a mathematical pattern similar to the movements of a bee circling from flower to flower as it collects nectar. That allows the new Miuro to act spontaneously and unpredictably - "just like a child playing," said Tokyo University researcher Takashi Ikegami, who developed the software. Other improvements will let users set the Miuro like an alarm clock so it wheels into the bedroom and blasts music at a certain time, for example, according to Taniguchi. Future versions of the Miuro will also use inbuilt sensors to proactively seek out people to play tunes to, he said. ZMP has already shipped 500 units of the original Miuro, which isn't equipped with the intelligent software but instead responds to a remote-control handheld manipulator. The 108,800 yen ($895) original Miuro can also receive wireless signals from a personal computer to play iTunes and other stored digital files. Separately sold options add a camera that beams images to PCs or lets owners control their Miuros by mobile phones. Miuro, short for "music innovation based on utility robot technology," is only on sale in Japan. ZMP did not give a date for the release of the new prototype. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TEN_FRENCH_OPEN?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 11:25 AM EDT Lleyton Hewitt advances at French Open Lleyton Hewitt advances at French Open U.S. men make early exit at French Open Federer eyes completing career Slam Elena Dementieva wins Istanbul Cup Mauresmo loses in Strasbourg final (AP) -- Lleyton Hewitt rallied from two sets down for the fourth time in his career Thursday and beat 2004 champion Gaston Gaudio 4-6, 3-6, 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 in the second round of the French Open. Hewitt, a two-time Grand Slam champion, missed two months because of a back injury and returned at the Rome Masters in early May. He broke his Argentine opponent in the third and seventh games of the third set, and then again to open each of the two remaining sets. "He's got to be one of the toughest second-round players to play," said Hewitt, who lost to Gaudio in the 2004 French Open quarterfinals. "The first two sets he played fantastic." The 14th-seeded Australian made 25 unforced errors in the first two sets, but limited that to 19 in the final three. He also had 20 aces, while Gaudio double-faulted 13 times. "I felt like I had a lot of opportunities to go up a break in the first set," Hewitt said. Hewitt stayed on course for a fourth-round rematch with two-time defending champion Rafael Nadal at Roland Garros. He lost to Nadal at the same stage last year. Hewitt has won the U.S. Open and Wimbledon and reached the final at the Australian Open. He has made the quarterfinals twice at the French Open, the last time losing to eventual champion Gaudio in 2004. Gaudio, who had reached the third round in Paris for five straight years, has only once won consecutive matches this year. Maria Sharapova, who missed nearly two months of the season because of an injured right shoulder, advanced to the third round in the women's draw, easily beating Jill Craybas of the United States 6-2, 6-1. "I feel it at times in the match," Sharapova said. "I try not to think about it." Up 2-1 at the start, Craybas held three break points at love-40. But Sharapova won the next 11 points, holding serve with the help of three forehand winners in a row, then breaking Craybas at love when the American dumped a volley into the net with the entire court open. In the second set, Craybas broke the second-ranked Russian in the sixth game, smiling and raising her hands after the winning point to accept the crowd's applause. But Sharapova broke right back to advance. Australian Open champion Serena Williams raced through the first set but was stretched in the second against Milagros Sequera, finally winning 6-0, 7-6 (3). No. 7 Ana Ivanovic defeated Sania Mirza 6-1, 6-4. No. 14 Patty Schnyder, No. 17 Katarina Srebotnik and No. 25 Lucie Safarova also advanced. On the men's side, No. 6 Novak Djokovic also reached the third round, beating Laurent Recouderc of France 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1. No. 16 Marcos Baghdatis, the 2006 Australian Open finalist, No. 7 Ivan Ljubicic and No. 20 Jarkko Nieminen also won. "Everybody now expects me to be the guy who can hurt the best two players in the world," said Djokovic, who has won three titles this year - including one on clay. Later Thursday, Nadal was to face Flavio Cipolla in the second round. Amelie Mauresmo also was scheduled to play. On Wednesday, top-ranked Roger Federer advanced to the third round, stopping Thierry Ascione of France 6-1, 6-2, 7-6 (8). The 10-time Grand Slam champion breezed through the first two sets, but as conditions worsened and the sun began to fade, so did his control of the match. "I know that they want to get their match over and done with," Federer said. Organizers have been trying to squeeze in extra matches because of the rain delays on the first two days of the tournament. "What I don't like is if they think ... I'm the favorite, I should win this in straight sets," said Federer, who finally walked off court at 9:15 p.m. "What about if it doesn't turn out this way?" Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/H/HARRY_POTTER_PARK?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 11:53 AM EDT Harry Potter theme park headed to Fla. On the Net: Web sites to travel by Entertainment highlights in history Swim into summer with new book titles dad: Lindsay hooked on OxyContin Harry Potter theme park headed to Fla. New 'Potter' to open sooner than planned Brosnan, wife helps Honolulu school kids Audrey Hepburn dress auctioned in NYC LONDON (AP) -- Universal Studios is opening up a Harry Potter theme park in Florida - complete with the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, the Forbidden Forest and Hogsmeade village. "The Wizarding World of Harry Potter," will open in late 2009 in Orlando, officials said Thursday. "The plans I've seen look incredibly exciting, and I don't think fans of the books or films will be disappointed," said author J.K. Rowling, who has been working with a creative team to make sure the park resembles the books and films. More than a dozen artists and designers lead by Stuart Craig, the production designer of the movies, have set up house in the studio where the movies are being filmed to make sure every detail is considered, according to Scott Trowbridge of Universal. "We're really going to the people who know this world best to ensure that level of authenticity," he said. The Potter park will allow visitors to view the iconic locations in Rowling's magical world, like Dumbledore's office in Hogwarts and the shops in Hogsmeade. Some locations may be in upcoming books, Trowbridge said. Trowbridge said while there would not be any character lookalikes at the park, fans wanting to see Harry Potter and his magical friends wouldn't leave disappointed. "This is Harry's world," said Trowbridge. "Most every fan wants to have an encounter with the star of the show." The Harry Potter book series has been translated into 65 languages with more than 325 million copies sold in over 200 territories around the world. The fifth film in the series, "Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix," will be released in theatres on 13 July. The seventh and final book of the series will be released on 21 July. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TELECOM_CONTRACT?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 12:31 PM EDT Five cos. win gov't telecom contract (AP) -- Five companies - AT&T, Level 3 Communications Inc., Qwest Communications, Sprint Nextel and Verizon - on Thursday were awarded a federal telecommunications contract worth up to $20 billion over 10 years. The winners of the so-called Networx Enterprise contract must now compete with each other to win business from agencies looking to improve their voice, data and other telecom services. It's the second telecom contract awarded by the General Services Administration in about two months. In late March, Qwest Communications International Inc., AT&T Inc. and Verizon Communications Inc. were winners of the much larger Networx Universal contract, the government's largest telecom contract ever awarded. That deal is potentially worth up to $48 billion over a decade. For Sprint - the only bidder shut out from the Universal contract - getting on the Enterprise contract was critical. The company had been providing telecom services to federal agencies for the last 18 years. GSA officials said Thursday they expect agencies to spend roughly $20 billion over the life of both contracts - or less than one-third of what's allowed. Universal requires companies to not only maintain current agencies' needs, but also offer advanced services, such as Internet-based telephone service, network security and video and Web conferencing, domestically and internationally. Enterprise has far fewer requirements than the much larger Universal contract and covers a smaller geographic area. Technology consultant Warren Suss of Jenkintown, Pa., said the question now becomes which contract the various agencies choose. They must either choose one or the other. If agencies choose Universal, which offers more mandatory services and greater breadth and scope of technologies, then he said it could be an "uphill battle" for Sprint. However, he said Sprint's current customers in the federal government may want to remain with the company to ensure transition from the previous government-wide telecom contract to Networx is smooth and easy rather than go with another carrier. Qwest senior vice president Diana Gowen said getting on Enterprise was vital for the Denver-based company, which was considered a longshot to even win a spot on the first Networx contract. She said being on both contracts puts the company in the best possible position. Like AT&T and Verizon, Qwest expects to get orders from agencies in late August or early September. "I have folks out there today stirring the pot with every single agency," she said. In morning trading, shares of AT&T rose 23 cents to $41.21, while shares of Level 3 Communications Inc. fell 5 cents to $5.86 and shares of Qwest gained 12 cents to $10.38. Sprint Nextel Corp.'s stock price fell a penny to $22.85, while Verizon's dipped 3 cents to $43.79. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CIVIL_UNIONS?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 12:15 PM EDT N.H. governor signs civil unions law Australian gay bar can bar heterosexuals Russian police detain gay activists Gays flock to Fla. Panhandle for holiday Romney: I'm not intolerant of gays Hearing sought over linguists' discharge N.H. (AP) -- Gay couples in New Hampshire can start applying for many of the rights and responsibilities of marriage as early as January under a law Gov. John Lynch signed Thursday establishing civil unions. "We in New Hampshire have had a long and proud tradition taking the lead in opposing discrimination," Lynch said. "Today that tradition continues." Couples who enter civil unions will have the same rights, responsibilities and obligations as married couples. Same-sex unions from other states also would be recognized if they were legal in the state where they were performed. Legislators who gathered for the bill signing packed the governor's chambers and overflowed into an adjoining sitting room. They snapped photos and burst into applause as he signed it. "I've listened and I've heard all the arguments," said Lynch, a Democrat. "I do not believe that this bill threatens marriage. I believe that this is a matter of conscience and fairness." Episcopal Bishop V. Gene Robinson was among those attending. Although his consecration in 2003 as the first openly gay bishop in the Episcopal Church divided the worldwide Anglican Communion to which it belongs, Robinson and his longtime partner plan to take advantage of civil unions. "This is not a radical departure," Robinson said of the bill. "This is a real confirmation of what New Hampshire has always been about: the freedom of its own citizens and fairness for everyone." Robinson said he will not direct Episcopal priests in the state to bless same-sex unions, letting priests decide that individually. Such blessings have been another divisive issue for Episcopalians and the Anglican union. "That authority belongs to them and I would not in any way ask them not to do that. ... Just like in marriages, every priest will have the option to bless or not to bless," Robinson said. Massachusetts alone among the U.S. states allows gay marriage. Connecticut, Vermont, New Jersey, Maine, California and Washington allow either civil unions or domestic partnerships, and Oregon will join the list with New Hampshire in January. Hawaii extends certain spousal rights to same-sex couples and cohabiting heterosexual pairs. (This version CORRECTS name to Anglican Communion.) Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/R/RUSSIA_PUTIN?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 10:56 AM EDT Putin: U.S. has triggered new arms race Suspect: U.K. involved in ex-spy's death Putin: U.S. has triggered new arms race Russian diplomat: New arms race starting U.S. senators back missile defense plan Russia says new ICBM can beat any system Putin blasts U.S. missile defense plan Latest Photos from Russia (AP) -- President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that tests of new Russian missiles were a response to the planned deployment of U.S. missile defense installations and other forces in Europe, suggesting Washington has triggered a new arms race. In a clear reference to the United States, he harshly criticized "imperialism" in global affairs and warned that Russia will strengthen its military potential to maintain a global strategic balance. "It wasn't us who initiated a new round of arms race," Putin said when asked about Russia's missile tests at a news conference after talks in the Kremlin with Greek President Karolos Papoulias. Putin described Tuesday's tests of a new ballistic missile capable of carrying multiple nuclear warheads and a new cruise missile as part of the Russian response to the planned deployment of new U.S. military bases and missile defense sites in ex-Soviet satellites in Central and Eastern Europe. He assailed the United States and other NATO members for failing to ratify an amended version of the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe (CFE) treaty, which limits the deployment of heavy non-nuclear weapons around the continent. "We have signed and ratified the CFE and are fully implementing it. We have pulled out all our heavy weapons from the European part of Russia to (locations) behind the Ural Mountains and cut our military by 300,000 men," Putin said. "And what about our partners? They are filling Eastern Europe with new weapons. A new base in Bulgaria, another one in Romania, a (missile defense) site in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic," he said. "What we are supposed to do? We can't just sit back and look at that." Putin and other Russian officials have repeatedly rejected U.S. assurances that the planned missile defense installations are meant to counter a potential threat from nations such as Iran and pose no danger to Russia. Putin reaffirmed his warning that Russia would opt out of the CFE treaty altogether if NATO nations fail to ratify its amended version. "Either you ratify the treaty and start observing it, or we will opt out of it," Putin said. In remarks clearly directed against Washington, Putin blasted those "who want to dictate their will to all others regardless of international norms and law." "It's dangerous and harmful," he added. "Norms of the international law were replaced with political expediency. We view it as diktat and imperialism." Russia this week initiated an international conference to be held in Austria in early June to discuss the situation around the CFE treaty. Putin described the tests of new missiles conducted by Russia on Tuesday as a necessary response to the Western action. "There is no reason to fear these actions by Russia, they aren't aggressive. It's merely a response to tough and unfounded unilateral actions by our partners," he said. "These actions are aimed at preserving a global balance." In one missile test Tuesday, a prototype of new Russia's intercontinental ballistic missile, called the RS-24, was fired from a mobile launcher at the Plesetsk launch site in northwestern Russia and its test warhead landed on target 3,400 miles away on the Far Eastern Kamchatka Peninsula, officials said. Russia's military also tested a new cruise missile based on the existing short-range Iskander missile. "We will keep modernizing our potential," Putin said. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/E/ECONOMY?SITE=CASRP&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Santa Rosa Press Democrat // News for California's North Bay and Redwood Empire Place a classified ad May 31, 11:14 AM EDT Economy nearly stalled in first quarter Northwest exits bankruptcy protection Precious metals prices climb Gasoline futures off on inventory report Five cos. win gov't telecom contract U.S. dollar slips against euro Stocks up after takeover news, GDP data Economy nearly stalled in first quarter S&P 500 index closes at record high Pulte among big stock movers Clinton outlines broad economic vision Iranian gas price hike shows weaknesses Wall Street to eye inflation, jobs data Japan consumer prices down 0.1 percent Automakers question fuel proposal in ads (AP) -- The economy nearly stalled in the first quarter with growth slowing to a pace of just 0.6 percent. That was the worst three-month showing in over four years. The new reading on the gross domestic product, released by the Commerce Department Thursday, showed that economic growth in the January-through-March quarter was much weaker. Government statisticians slashed by more than half their first estimate of a 1.3 percent growth rate for the quarter. The main culprits for the downgrade: the bloated trade deficit and businesses cutting investment in supplies of the goods they hold in inventories. "We are still keeping our head above water - barely," said economist Ken Mayland of ClearView Economics. For nearly a year, the economy has been enduring a stretch of subpar economic growth due mostly to a sharp housing slump. That in turn has made some businesses act more cautiously in their spending and investing. The economy's 0.6 percent growth rate in the opening quarter of this year marked a big loss of momentum from the 2.5 percent pace logged in the final quarter of last year. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke doesn't believe the economy will slide into recession this year, nor do Bush administration officials. But ex-Fed chief Alan Greenspan has put the odds at one in three. On Wall Street, investors took the weak GDP showing in stride. The Dow Jones industrials were up 22 points and the Nasdaq gained 14 points in morning trading. The first-quarter's performance was the weakest since the final quarter of 2002, when the economy was recovering from a recession. At that time, GDP eked out a 0.2 percent growth rate. Economists were predicting the first-quarter performance this year would be downgraded, but not as much as it did. They were calling for a 0.8 percent pace. GDP measures the value of all goods and services produced in the United States. It is considered the best measure of the country's economic fitness. In other economic news, the Labor Department reported that fewer people signed up for unemployment benefits last week. New filings dropped by 4,000 to 310,000. That suggests the employment climate is weathering well the economy's sluggish spell. Another report showed that construction spending edged up by 0.1 percent in April, down from a 0.6 percent gain in the previous month. Spending by private builders on nonresidential projects and spending by the government on big projects each climbed to all time highs in April but that strength was tempered by continued weakness in residential construction. In the GDP report, many economists believe the first quarter will be the low point for this year. They expect growth will improve but still be sluggish. The National Association for Business Economics predicts the economy will expand at a 2.3 percent pace in the April-to-June quarter. In the first quarter, there was a larger trade deficit than first thought. That ended up shaving a full percentage point from the GDP. Businesses cut back on inventory investment as they tried to make sure unsold stocks of goods didn't get out of whack with customer demand. That lopped off nearly a percentage point to first quarter GDP. Those were the biggest factors behind the government slicing its initial GDP estimate released a month ago by as much as it did. The sour housing market also restrained overall economic activity. Investment in home building was cut by 15.4 percent, on an annualized basis, in the first quarter. However, that wasn't as deep a cut as the 17 percent annualized drop initially estimated. And, it wasn't as severe as the 19.8 percent annualized drop seen in the final quarter of last year. Even so, there is no doubt that troubled housing market is one of the biggest problems for the economy. Although some businesses tightened the belt in the first quarter, consumers did not. That helped to prevent the economy from stalling out altogether. Consumers boosted their spending by a 4.4 percent growth rate in the first quarter, the most in a year. Consumer spending accounts for a major chunk of economic activity. Some economists wonder how much interest consumers will have in continued brisk spending, however, given rising gasoline prices that have topped $3 a gallon in many markets. More money spent filling up the gas tank leaves less to spend on other things. One of the reasons consumers have stayed so resilient even as the housing market has been stuck in a rut for a year is because the job market has been good. Employers - still enjoying profits - are keeping a close watch on spending but they are not drastically clamping down on hiring. Companies profits gained a bit of ground in the first quarter. One measure showed after tax profits rising by 1 percent, up from 0.8 percent in the fourth quarter. An inflation gauge tied to the GDP report and closely watched by the Fed showed that core prices - excluding food and energy - rose at a rate of 2.2 percent in the first quarter. That was unchanged from an initial estimate but up from a 1.8 percent pace in the fourth quarter. The Federal Reserve's key interest rate has been at 5.25 percent for nearly a year. Many economists predict the rate probably will stay right where it is through the rest of this year. Democrat | 427 Mendocino Ave., P.O. Box 569, Santa Rosa, CA 95402 &mdash; 707-546-2020
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GUANTANAMO_TRIALS?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 5:12 PM EDT Guantanamo Judge Dismisses Terror Case By ANDREW O. SELSKY From Suburbia to Guantanamo: The Odyssey of Majid Khan Assault with Bodily Fluids Failure to Follow Rules Hicks' stipulation of fact Pentagon acknowledges Geneva Convention protections D.O.D. list of Gitmo detainees Detainee Usama Hassan Ahmend Abu Kabir: I like my watch because it is durable Detainee Abdul Matin: Younger men and women use this watch everywhere Unnamed detainee: It's a watch. I use it like a watch Feroz Ali Abbasi's handwritten note released by the Pentagon Summarized sworn detainee statement released by the Pentagon Guantanamo Judge Dismisses Terror Case Apparent Gitmo Suicide Was Saudi Veteran Detainee Appeals for Reporter's Release Gitmo Detainee Fears Returning to Jordan US Commander: Guantanamo More Controlled Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists Group Denies Link to NYC Terror Plot Informant Helped Bust Alleged JFK Plot Man Jailed After False Terror Threat U.S. Warns of Terror in Philippine Towns Gordon Brown Plans New Anti-Terror Laws BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba (AP) -- A military judge dismissed terrorism-related charges Monday against a prisoner charged with killing an American soldier in Afghanistan, delivering a blow to the Bush administration's attempt to try Guantanamo detainees in military courts. The ruling raised questions about whether the U.S. would have to further revise procedures for prosecuting prisoners, leading to major delays. The chief of military defense attorneys at Guantanamo Bay argued that the ruling could spell the end of the war-crimes trial system set up last year by Congress and President Bush after the Supreme Court threw out the previous system. But a law professor said it appeared the judge left open the possibility of filing new charges. A military prosecutor said the ruling would be appealed, and the U.S. military entity responsible for holding the military trials said it believed Congress intended to grant jurisdiction to try suspected Taliban and al-Qaida members and supporters. Canadian detainee Omar Khadr, who was 15 when he was captured after a deadly firefight in Afghanistan and who is now 20, will remain at the remote U.S. military base along with some 380 other men suspected of links to al-Qaida and the Taliban. The judge, Army Col. Peter Brownback, said he had no choice but to throw out the Khadr case because he had been classified as an "enemy combatant" by a military panel years earlier - and not as an "alien unlawful enemy combatant." The Military Commissions Act, signed by Bush last year, says only those classified as "unlawful" enemy combatants can face war trials here, Brownback noted during the arraignment in a hilltop courtroom. Later Monday, a lawyer representing the only other detainee charged with war crimes, Salim Ahmed Hamdan, asked another military judge to throw out that case, based on the Khadr ruling. The judge, Navy Capt. Keith Allred, called a recess before the prosecutor could make a statement. Marine Col. Dwight Sullivan, head of the Guantanamo defense attorneys, said the dismissal in the Khadr case would have "huge" impact because none of the detainees held at this isolated military base in southeast Cuba has been found to be an "unlawful" enemy combatant. "It is not just a technicality; it's the latest demonstration that this newest system just does not work," Sullivan told journalists. "It is a system of justice that does not comport with American values." Sullivan said that in order to reclassify the detainees as "unlawful" combatants, the whole review system would have to be overhauled, a time-consuming act. The Pentagon said the issue was little more than semantics. A spokesman said the system was not dealing with lawful combatants, who fight in uniform for a national army. It was set up to determine if a detainee acted as an "unlawful enemy combatant" who was not in an internationally recognized military, did not wear a uniform or rank insignia, did not carry arms openly and was not a party to the Geneva Conventions, he said. "It is our belief that the concept was implicit that all the Guantanamo detainees who were designated as `enemy combatants' ... were in fact unlawful," Navy Cmdr. Jeffrey Gordon told The Associated Press. Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said that because Brownback dismissed the case without prejudice, the U.S. may be able to retry Khadr. He also said it is unclear whether all detainees would have to be reclassified. A military spokeswoman, Army Maj. Beth Kubala, said the prosecution had five days in which to file an appeal. But Sullivan said the court designated to hear any appeal - known as the court of military commissions review - doesn't even exist. Kubala told AP Television News that Brownback's ruling underscored the fairness of the system. "The military commissions procedures and rules are robust and grant significant rights to the accused," she said. The only other Guantanamo detainee currently charged with crimes is Hamdan, who is accused of chauffeuring Osama bin Laden and being the al-Qaida chief's bodyguard. The third detainee charged under the new system, Australian David Hicks, pleaded guilty in March to providing material support to al-Qaida and is serving a nine-month sentence in Australia. Brownback's ruling came just minutes into Khadr's arraignment on charges he committed murder in violation of the law of war, attempted murder in violation of the law of war, conspiracy, providing material support for terrorism and spying. Khadr allegedly killed a U.S. Army soldier with a grenade in the firefight, in which he was wounded. He appeared in the courtroom with a beard and wearing an olive-green prison uniform. "The charges are dismissed without prejudice," Brownback pronounced as he adjourned the proceeding. A prosecutor, Army Capt. Keith Petty, said he had been prepared to show Khadr was an unlawful combatant because he fought for al-Qaida, and videotapes showed Khadr making and planting explosives targeting American soldiers. Khadr seemed oblivious to the ruling. He calmly watched the judge throw out the case - looking not at Brownback but at a computer screen at the defense table that showed a live TV broadcast of the proceedings. Khadr could see himself on the screen The U.S. military has hoped to accelerate its prosecutions of Guantanamo detainees, with the Pentagon saying it expects to eventually charge about 80 of the 380 prisoners held at this isolated base, but questions lingered about the legitimacy of the process. The Supreme Court, ruling in favor of a lawsuit brought by Hamdan, last June threw out a previous military tribunal system that was set up in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, calling it unconstitutional. Congress responded with new guidelines for war-crimes trials and Bush signed them into law. Hamdan's attorney, Navy Lt. Cmdr. Charles Swift, told The Associated Press that he will challenge the new system as unconstitutional. For example, the Military Commissions Act retroactively made certain acts, such as conspiracy a crime, Swift said. "This case raises significant questions" about the separation of powers, Swift said. "Congress cannot violate the Constitution to fix things ... but they are backdating anything and making it a crime." Hamdan is charged with conspiracy - centered on his alleged membership in al-Qaida and purported role in plotting to attack civilians and civilian targets - and with providing material support for terrorism. As part of the second charge, Hamdan is accused of transporting at least one SA-7 surface-to-air missile to shoot down U.S. and coalition military aircraft in Afghanistan in November 2001. The son of an alleged al-Qaida financier, Khadr is accused of killing U.S. Army Sgt. Christopher Speer with a grenade during a firefight in Afghanistan on July 27, 2002. Khadr's attorneys said he was a child soldier and should be rehabilitated, not imprisoned. "The U.S. will be the first country in modern history to try an individual who was a child at the time of the alleged war crimes," the attorneys said in a joint statement in April. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSING_SOLDIERS_VIDEO?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:42 PM EDT Group Claims Captured Troops Were Killed Video Claims Missing U.S. Soldiers Are Dead Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Garver, a U-S military spokesman, says there's nothing in the tape to prove the soldiers are dead and may provide a lead. Scene in Baghdad on Memorial Day Searching With Missing Soldiers' Platoon A War Widow's Story The Toll: Coalition Casualties Since March 2003 How MySpace is Changing the Face of War Al-Sadr's Followers Becoming Less Unified end interactive icon section --> Latest photos from Iraq Bush Opens Europe Trip on Jarring Note 7 Turkish Troops Killed in Rebel Attack U.S. Troop Drive Said Faltering in Iraq Bush Brings Pre-Emptive Agenda to Europe U.S. Military Deaths in Iraq at 3,479 Executive Summary: DOD Inspector General on Pre-Iraq War Intelligence Activities(2/9/2007) Unclassified National Intelligence Estimate Summary on Iraq (2/2/2007) Inspector General Report on Iraq Reconstruction (1/31/2007) CAIRO, Egypt (AP) -- Al-Qaida linked insurgents killed three American soldiers after capturing them last month in Iraq, according to a militant video released Monday that claimed to show footage of the ambush. The video offered no proof for its claims. The clip, which was made available to The Associated Press by the Washington-based SITE Institute, showed confused and jerky night battle scenes, and later offered close-ups of two identification cards. It did not show the soldiers. "The Americans sent 4,000 soldiers looking for them," said an unidentified voice on the video, which featured the logo of the media production house of the Islamic State of Iraq. "They were alive and then dead." The body of one of the soldiers was found in Iraq's Euphrates River, but the other two remain missing. Family friends of the missing men said the U.S. military briefed relatives about the video over the weekend. The U.S. military insisted the search for the two missing soldiers would continue. "We condemn the tactics used by these terrorists, and are using all means available to pursue those responsible," said Brig. Gen. Kevin Bergner, the chief military spokesman in Baghdad. "We continue to search and hope that our two missing soldiers will be found alive and in good health. " The video offered no proof for its claims that the soldiers had been killed and buried. The voiceover blamed their deaths on "the American Army and their leaders, who do not care for the feelings of the soldiers' mothers." "And as you refused to deliver the bodies of our killed people, we will not deliver the bodies of your dead, and their end will be beneath the ground, Allah willing," the voice said. A body found May 23 in the Euphrates River was identified by the U.S. military as Pfc. Joseph Anzack Jr., 20, of Torrance, Calif. The missing soldiers have been identified as Spc. Alex R. Jimenez, 25, of Lawrence, Mass., and of Pvt. Byron W. Fouty, 19, of Waterford, Mich. The three vanished after their combat team was ambushed May 12 about 20 miles outside Baghdad. Five others, including an Iraqi, were killed in the ambush, subsequently claimed by al-Qaida. The attack triggered a massive search in the area south of Baghdad known as the "triangle of death" for the rampant insurgent activity there. Gordon Dibler, Fouty's stepfather, said he was holding out hope for the soldiers' safe return: "We're praying, and so far, we don't know for certain that they aren't alive." At the end of the 10-minute 41-second video, the identification cards of the two missing soldiers were shown, with the headline: "Bush is the reason of the loss of your POWs" written on the screen above the cards. SITE, an organization that monitors terrorist groups, did not say how it obtained the video. A card belonging to Anzack was not shown. Along with the identification cards, the footage also showed credit cards, American and Iraqi money and other personal items the militants called "booty." Bergner, the U.S. spokesman, said the footage "doesn't appear to contain any definitive evidence indicating the status of our missing soldiers." The video also showed footage, apparently taken before the ambush, of three masked men standing around a stand displaying a sketch of the area, mapping out the attack plan. One of the three men, who were all dressed in black, talked to the camera and pointed to the sketch. Another stood by him carrying a gun. "I have urged you to bring me American prisoners," said the man, whose name was not given but was identified as one of the militant group's leaders. A Islamic Web site that commonly posts videos from militant groups including the Islamic State of Iraq said in a banner headline that it would show the video within hours, but the video has not yet appeared. After the soldiers disappeared, the Islamic State of Iraq issued Web statements warning the Americans to call off the hunt "if you want their safety." Associated Press writer David N. Goodman contributed to this report from Detroit. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BUSH?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:32 PM EDT Bush Opens Europe Trip on Jarring Note AP White House Correspondent Bush Heads to G8 Summit the G-8? Explore an Interactive Primer PRAGUE, Czech Republic (AP) -- President Bush's European trip was jarred as it began Monday by deteriorating relations with Russia and threatening words from President Vladimir Putin. Bush and Putin will see each other at the annual summit of industrialized nations, beginning Wednesday at the Baltic Sea resort city of Heiligendamm, Germany. In a diplomatic poke in the eye at Putin, Bush bracketed the summit with stops in the Czech Republic and Poland - the two countries where the United States wants to build a missile defense system for Europe. Already complaining of being encircled by NATO's expansion, Putin said putting missile defenses on Russia's doorstep would ignite a new arms race. He threatened to retarget Russia's missiles toward Europe. Bush says the anti-missile program is intended to protect Europe from states like Iran and North Korea, but Putin said neither country possesses the rockets the American system is intended to shoot down. "It's a defense against something which does not exist," the Russian president said. "It would be funny if it was not so sad." Flying to Europe with Bush, National Security Adviser Steve Hadley reacted cautiously to Putin. "There has been some escalation in the rhetoric," he said. "We think that is not helpful. We would like to have a constructive dialogue with Russia on this issue. We have in the past." Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged Putin to cool down. "This isn't the Soviet Union and we need to drop the rhetoric that sounds like what the United States and the Soviet Union used to say about each other and realize it is the United States and Russia in a very different period," Rice said on the way to an Organization of American States meeting in Panama City, Panama. "It doesn't really help anybody to start threatening the Europeans," she said. "You cannot launch a threat at Europe that is separable from the United States." Bush and his wife, Laura, arrived late Monday evening. In his only address of an eight-day trip through six countries, Bush will make a speech on Tuesday about supporting global democratic aspirations. Hadley said Russia, accused of backpedaling on democracy, would come up in that speech because "there are no exceptions to the freedom agenda." "So obviously when we look for the progress of freedom and democracy we look for the progress of freedom and democracy in Russia and China," Hadley said. Putin's sharp words at Washington - and Britain, as well - set an unusually chilly tone for the three-day summit in Heiligendamm. Leaders of the eight participating countries - the United States, Britain, Russia, France, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan - typically mask their differences in statements that have been watered down to find consensus. "The most interesting issue on the agenda, to me, is Russia and how the other seven will handle Mr. Putin, who is really the elephant in the room," said Simon Serfaty, a senior adviser to the Europe program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Aside from his sharp words at Washington, Putin also took a slap at Britain for seeking the extradition of a Russian businessman who is a suspect in the killing of former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko. Putin called London's move "stupidity." German Chancellor Angela Merkel also had a run-in with Putin last month, criticizing Russia's crackdown on political opponents. In interviews before the trip, Bush called Putin "my friend" but said the U.S.-Russian relationship was complicated. "Vladimir Putin will tell me that Russia is a democracy and that he's advancing democracy," Bush said. "We have got some questions about that, of course." There is a growing list of irritants in the U.S.-Russian relationship. Russia is unhappy about a U.S.-backed bid for independence for Kosovo. The United States wants Putin to do more to press Iran to abandon its suspected nuclear weapons program. Seeking a better footing in the relationship, Putin has accepted Bush's invitation for a July 1-2 meeting at his family's compound in Kennebunkport, Maine. Bush was expected to face pressure in Heiligendamm over what is widely perceived as U.S. footdragging in combatting global warming. But the president tried to pre-empt critics with his proposal last week challenging major polluting countries to agree on a target for reducing greenhouse gases. Still, Bush's proposal to let each country decide how much to do leaves a gap between Washington on one side and Merkel and the European Union on the other. Merkel had hoped that concrete goals to reduce emissions would be a centerpiece of her leadership of the G-8. Hadley gave Merkel a diplomatic nudge to support Bush's stand. "It's not about upstaging Angela Merkel. Quite the contrary," Hadley said. "It is not an alternative to anybody's plan, but it is an effort to identify a way forward and, quite frankly, it's an opportunity for Angela Merkel to preside over a very successful G-8." Along with his stops in Prague, Poland and Heiligendamm, Bush will visit Italy, Albania and Bulgaria. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CONGRESSMAN_PROBE?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 5:12 PM EDT Rep. Jefferson Indicted in Bribery Probe By LARA JAKES JORDAN AP Photo/Lauren Victoria Burke AP-Ipsos Poll: Bush and Congress Rep. Jefferson Indicted in Bribery Probe Indicted Lawmaker Always Fond of Cash Members of Congress Charged With Crimes Wyoming Senator in Serious Condition Senate to Resume Debate Over Immigration The 110th Congress' First 100 Hours Sen. Max Baucus: The AP Interview Mark Foley Scandal Timeline Harry Reid Land Deal Congressional Leadership Financial Disclosure Harry Reid's Ties to Abramoff DeLay and Blunt: Following the Money Congress Goes to Bat for Tribes against Rep. William Jefferson WASHINGTON (AP) -- Rep. William Jefferson, D-La., was indicted Monday on federal charges of racketeering, money-laundering and soliciting more than $400,000 in bribes in connection with years of trying to broker business deals in Africa. The charges came almost two years after investigators raided Jefferson's home in Washington and found $90,000 in cash stuffed in a box in his freezer. The indictment in federal court in Alexandria, Va., lists 16 alleged violations with prison terms totaling as much as 235 years. Jefferson is charged with racketeering, soliciting bribes, wire fraud, money laundering, obstruction of justice and conspiracy. He is the first sitting congressman to face charges under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits corporate bribery overseas. Jefferson is to be arraigned Friday in U.S. District Court in Alexandria. Jefferson is accused of soliciting bribes from 11 different companies for himself and his family, and also of bribing a Nigerian official. The scheme was complicated and Jefferson set up a front company to hide the money, prosecutors said. "But the essence of the charges are really very simple: Mr. Jefferson corruptly traded on his good office and on the Congress," said Chuck Rosenberg, the U.S. attorney for eastern Virginia. The 60-year-old Jefferson, whose Louisiana district includes New Orleans, has said little about the case publicly but has maintained his innocence. He was re-elected last year despite the investigation. Joseph Persichini, who leads FBI's Washington field office, called on the public to "take the time, read this charging document line by line, scheme by scheme, count by count. This case is about greed, power and arrogance." Jefferson, in New Orleans on Monday, could not immediately be reached for comment. His lawyer was planning an afternoon news conference. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is expected to push this week for Jefferson to be stripped of his seat on the Small Business Committee, according to a leadership aide who spoke on condition of anonymity because the decision had not yet been announced. "If these charges are proven true, they constitute an egregious and unacceptable abuse of public trust and power," said Pelosi, D-Calif. "Democrats are committed to upholding a high ethical standard and eliminating corruption and unethical behavior from the Congress." House Republican Leader John Boehner of Ohio said Jefferson should be expelled from Congress if he is found guilty and refuses to resign. "The American people rightfully expect the highest ethical standards from their elected leaders," Boehner said. Two of Jefferson's associates have struck plea bargains with prosecutors and have been sentenced. Brett Pfeffer, a former congressional aide, admitted soliciting bribes on Jefferson's behalf and was sentenced to eight years in prison. Another Jefferson associate, Louisville, Ky., telecommunications executive Vernon Jackson, pleaded guilty to paying between $400,000 and $1 million in bribes to Jefferson in exchange for his assistance securing business deals in Nigeria and other African nations. Jackson was sentenced to more than seven years in prison. Both Pfeffer and Jackson agreed to cooperate in the case against Jefferson. The impact of the case has stretched across continents and even roiled presidential politics in Nigeria. According to court records, Jefferson told associates he needed cash to pay bribes to the country's vice president, Atiku Abubakar. Abubakar denied the allegations, which figured prominently in that country's presidential elections in April. He ran for the presidency and finished third. The indictment does not name Abubakar. But it describes Jefferson's dealings with an unnamed "Nigerian Official A" who was a high-ranking official in Nigeria's executive branch who had a spouse in Potomac, Md. One of Abubakar's wives lived in that Washington suburb. Rosenberg would not confirm that person was Abubakar. In Lagos, Nigeria, Abubakar spokesman Garba Shehu said the former vice president "has always denied wrongdoing in the matter." "He has only had official interaction with the congressman, who the vice president felt deserved a hearing because he was a ranking member of the U.S. Congress," Shehu said. "The vice president was in no way cited in this thing, so we feel vindicated." Court records indicate Jefferson was videotaped taking a $100,000 cash bribe from an FBI informant. Most of that money later turned up in the freezer in Jefferson's home. In May 2006, the FBI raided Jefferson's congressional office, the first such raid on a congressman's Capitol office. That move sparked a constitutional debate over whether the executive branch stepped over a boundary. The raid's legality is still being argued on appeal. House leaders objected to the search, saying it was an unconstitutional intrusion on the lawmaking process. The FBI said the raid was necessary because Jefferson and his legal team had failed to respond to requests for documents. Some but not all the documents seized in the raid have been turned over Justice Department prosecutors. Assistant Attorney General Alice Fisher said the documents helped being the case against Jefferson. "Some of those documents that we were able to obtain through the process have indeed supported the charges that are presented today," Fisher said. Associated Press writers Cain Burdeau in New Orleans, Matthew Barakat in McLean, Va., and Edward Harris in Lagos, Nigeria, contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SMUGGLING_CHILDREN?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:39 PM EDT Women Prosecuted for Smuggling Children By AMANDA LEE MYERS Women Prosecuted for Smuggling Children Toddler Dies in Auto-Starting Dishwasher Boy Killed by Colliding Cruisers in Pa. (AP) -- An increasing number of illegal immigrants who left their children back home are hiring complete strangers to bring the youngsters into this country by bluffing their way past U.S. border inspectors. Typically, the stranger poses as the child's mother or another relative as she drives through a checkpoint. Sometimes the children are given cough syrup to sedate them and ensure they don't say or do anything to make border guards suspicious. U.S. officials say they are seeing more such cases because stepped-up enforcement along the border has made it more dangerous to sneak into the country by trekking across the desert. "People who may be afraid or think it's too dangerous to bring a child through the desert when it's 120 degrees think it's better to place a child in the hands of a total stranger," said Roger Maier, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman in Texas. U.S. officials warned that entrusting children to a stranger is foolish, too. "There's no guarantee that you're going to be reunited with your child. There's no guarantee that your child is being cared for," said Brian Levin, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman in Arizona. Nevertheless, officials at the border could not cite a specific case of a child being hurt or stolen in the smuggling scheme. Dozens of U.S. citizens, permanent residents and other women with a legal right to be in this country have been prosecuted in the past few years for trying to smuggle children into the U.S. Border officials said they do not have exact numbers but believe such cases are on the rise. The women are typically poor, and are hired by smugglers for $100 to $500 for the transaction. They are often mothers themselves, and use their own children's birth certificates when they drive through a checkpoint. "They're a vulnerable class of people who get sucked into this," said Joel Parris, an assistant federal public defender in Tucson who has defended several women smugglers. "These women are so focused on surviving and taking care of their own kids, when someone comes with a pity trip, their sympathy is so strong they can't resist." Ana Meza-Montano, a 36-year-old single mother from Agua Prieta, Mexico, across the border from Douglas, Ariz., had a border crossing card that allowed her to enter the United States for short periods to shop and run other errands. Meza-Montano was caught at the Douglas port of entry trying to smuggle a 1-year-old girl who she said was her daughter. Parris, who defended her, said Meza-Montano agreed to the transaction because a smuggler offered to pay off her son's $100 bicycle, which was on layaway at a Wal-Mart. The woman is serving a 15-month prison sentence. Sandra Ramirez, a 24-year-old single mother of four, was caught trying to sneak an 11-year-old boy through the Nogales, Ariz., port of entry, and said a co-worker offered her $1,000 to do it. Now Ramirez is serving a 15-month prison sentence and will be deported to Mexico after she gets out. "This is just one of the most overwhelmingly saddest cases," said Ramirez's lawyer, Stephanie Meade. "She had no idea of the kind of consequences and trouble that she would get in." Officials say the smuggling tactic has become more common partly because more illegal immigrants are deciding to bring their families into the country. In the past, it was more common for men to leave their families behind and return periodically for visits. Also, because of tighter enforcement by the Border Patrol and the National Guard, illegal immigrants who want to sneak across the desert are being forced to make the attempt along more remote, more rugged - and more dangerous - stretches of the border. The U.S. Attorney's Office in Arizona has made prosecuting these child-smuggling cases one of its top priorities. "Children are being put in situations where the risk of something happening to them is high, and we felt that people need to be held accountable for this," spokesman Wyn Hornbuckle said. He added: "There are many examples of how violent these smuggling organizations are and how ruthless they've become, and they'd be the last people I'd entrust my kids to." U.S. Customs and Border Protection: &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WALL_STREET?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:50 PM EDT Stocks Eke Out Gain Despite China Drop By JOE BEL BRUNO Stocks Eke Out Gain Despite China Drop Palm Among Big Movers in Stock Market Wall Street Eyes Service Sector Report Krispy Kreme Widens 1Q Losses Hovnanian Posts 3rd Straight Loss Dell Lays Off 8,000; 1Q Earnings Sag Chip Sales Expected to Grow by 2.5 Pct. Ford Predicts Rise in Retail Sales Boeing Reaffirms Strong Growth Outlook Dominion Sells Most Oil and Gas Units Metals Prices Climb on Supply Concerns Indian Casinos Gross $25 Billion in 2006 Krispy Kreme Widens 1Q Losses World Bank Pick Tries to Mend Fences YORK (AP) -- Wall Street recovered from a mostly down session Monday, eking out a gain as investors brushed off another slide in Chinese stocks. The market had little in the way of corporate or economic news to give it direction, but while it was in negative territory for much of the day, in the end it shook off an 8.3 percent slide in the benchmark Shanghai Composite Index. The Chinese index had its biggest one-day drop since the Feb. 27 plunge that set off a brief global market selloff as the Chinese government attempts to cool the country's market boom. Investors used Monday to adjust positions after both the Standard & Poor's 500 index and Dow Jones industrial average surged to record closes in the previous session. The market was encouraged by economic data released last week that suggested the economy was slowing, but not too quickly, and inflation remained in check. However, the Commerce Department reported Monday that orders to U.S. factories were weaker than expected in April. Investors might find some information to trade with the release of the Institute of Supply Management's service sector index on Tuesday, but not much other information is expected. "I think you're seeing a combination of investors wanting to take some profit on a Monday morning, and some fear because of what happened in China," said Ryan Detrick, a senior technical strategist for Schaffer's Investment Research. "There's really no major drivers in the market, so we're really just meandering along." According to preliminary calculations, the Dow rose 8.21, or 0.06 percent, to 13,676.32. Broader stock indicators also narrowly mixed. The S&P 500 index rose 2.84, or 0.18 percent, to 1,539.18, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 4.37, or 0.17 percent, to 2,618.29. The Dow and S&P again snagged record closes Monday, and the S&P moved closer to its trading high of 1,552.87, set in March 2000. Last week, the Dow posted a 1.19 percent gain; the S&P 500 index rose 1.36 percent; and the Nasdaq composite index added 2.22 percent. The bond market moved higher, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury falling to 4.93 percent from 4.96 percent late Friday. The Commerce Department report had some impact on the bond market on hopes weaker data will mean an interest rate cut this year. The report showed 0.3 percent in manufacturing growth in April, and economists expected a rise of 0.7 percent after a 3.1 percent jump in March. The dollar slipped against other major currencies, while gold prices rose. Oil prices rose after a Nigerian militant group announced a one-month cease-fire, and a U.S. gasoline pipeline was restarted. A barrel of light sweet crude rose $1.13 to $66.21 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold slipped. Michael Sheldon, chief market strategist at Spencer Clarke, said the near term will be dominated by higher energy prices and bond yields - two catalysts that could cause the equities market to pull back. He believes there's complacency among investors, and that the market will need a correction before resuming an advance later in the summer. "As investors look ahead, we're past the earnings season, the Fed seems to be out of the way for the moment, and we've had a run-up in equities prices over the past few months," he said, referring to the Federal Reserve's current policy of stable interest rates. "Given continued uncertainty in the housing sector, and rising energy and food prices, it appears likely to us that we should have a period of consolidation or profit taking before the market turns higher again." In corporate news, dealmaking activity continued this week. Smartphone maker Palm Inc. said Monday it got $325 million from private equity firm Elevation Partners and announced a shakeup on its board. Palm spiked $1.48, or 9.2 percent, to $17.57. Publisher Dow Jones & Co. fell $1.04 to $60.16 as the owner of The Wall Street Journal met with Rupert Murdoch about the possibility of an acquisition. Murdoch's News Corp. has offered $5 billion for the company. Oil and natural gas producer Anadarko Petroleum Corp. said late Sunday it is selling natural gas gathering systems and associated processing plants to Atlas Pipeline Partners LP for $1.85 billion. Anadarko rose $2.30, or 4.6 percent, to $51.95; Atlas shares rose $8.14, or 22.9 percent, to $39.56. Solectron Corp. rose 51 cents, or 15.2 percent, to $3.88 after rival Flextronics International Ltd. said it would by the contract electronics maker for about $3.6 billion in cash and stock. Flextronics fell 16 cents at $11.54. Apple Inc.'s highly anticipated iPhone will be available June 29, according to both TV commercials broadcast Sunday night and a company spokesman. Shares of the technology company rose $2.93, or 2.5 percent, to $121.33. And Wal-Mart Stores Inc. rose $1.74, or 3.5 percent, to $51.21 after being upgraded by analysts at Wachovia Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 4 to 3 on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume came to 1.34 billion shares, compared to 1.48 billion on Friday. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 1.68, or 0.20 percent, at 855.09. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock average closed up 0.08 percent. At the close, Britain's FTSE 100 was down 0.19 percent, Germany's DAX index dropped 0.14 percent, and France's CAC-40 shed 0.69 percent. New York Stock Exchange: &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TERRORISM_PLOT_TRINIDAD?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:38 PM EDT Group Denies Link to NYC Terror Plot Drug Convict Helped Bust JFK Plot New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg says the city needs to take all potential attacks seriously. Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists Group Denies Link to NYC Terror Plot Informant Helped Bust Alleged JFK Plot Man Jailed After False Terror Threat U.S. Warns of Terror in Philippine Towns Gordon Brown Plans New Anti-Terror Laws Alleged JFK Airport Terror Plot Map of JFK International Airport Alleged Terrorism Plot at JFK Airport PORT-OF-SPAIN, Trinidad (AP) -- The leader of a radical Trinidadian Muslim group denied Monday that his organization had any connection to four men accused of planning to attack New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport. Yasin Abu Bakr, the leader of Jamaat al Muslimeen, told The Associated Press he knew "nothing" about the alleged plan to bomb a fuel pipeline feeding the airport, a plot authorities say was hatched by a group that included a former Guyanese politician. U.S. authorities claim the alleged plotters sought support in Trinidad from Jamaat al Muslimeen, which staged a deadly coup attempt in the Caribbean nation in 1990. The men did not receive such support, according to court documents. But the documents also say that Abdel Nur, a Guyanese suspect thought to be still at large in Trinidad, said he met in May with Abu Bakr at his compound in Trinidad and the Islamic leader suggested that he return later with others involved "to discuss the plan in detail." Nur allegedly said the Jamaat al Muslimeen leader also wanted to do further checks on Russell Defreitas, the 63-year-old accused mastermind of the plot, and an unidentified confidential informant who had infiltrated the group, the documents said. Abu Bakr declined to say if he knew the men, but also denied any involvement. "I know nothing about these men, and I have nothing to do with whatever they are being charged for," he said in his first public comments since U.S. authorities disclosed the plot on Saturday. Two of the suspects - Abdul Kadir, a former member of Guyana's parliament, and Kareem Ibrahim of Trinidad - are in custody in Trinidad. Nur was being sought by Trinidadian authorities. Defreitas, a U.S. citizen native to Guyana and former JFK air cargo employee, was jailed in the United States. Abu Bakr's group, often accused of aiming to create an Islamic state in Trinidad, describes itself simply as a religious organization. The group stormed Parliament and took the prime minister and his Cabinet hostage in a 1990 rebellion that left 24 dead - the only Islamic revolt in the Western Hemisphere. The rebels eventually surrendered and were later pardoned. It is not known to have international reach, although a member was convicted of trying to smuggle 70 assault rifles to Trinidad from Florida in 2005. Abu Bakr faces charges stemming from a 2005 sermon in which he called for war against rich Muslims who refuse to pay zakaat, an Islamic tithe used to alleviate poverty. The following week, he was arrested by police who razed the group's compound and charged him with sedition and incitement to violence. "You know why they are linking me with this so-called plot is to bias the minds of jurors who will be sitting in my case," he said. Separately, a lawyer for the two men held in Trinidad said they would fight extradition to the United States. Ibrahim and Kadir made their initial court appearance Monday for extradition on one count each of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act against the U.S. government. "We will be opposing extradition," said Rajid Persad, a lawyer who represents both men. The judge set another hearing for June 11 to consider bail and scheduled an extradition hearing for Aug. 2. Farid Scoon, another lawyer for the men, said they intend to seek bail. The extradition fight could be a drawn-out affair. Ibrahim and Kadir could appeal all the way to the Privy Council in Britain, the highest court of appeal for the former British territory. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SURINAME_NEW_SPECIES?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 5:03 PM EDT Scientists Find 24 Species in Suriname Suriname (AP) -- A frog with fluorescent purple markings and 12 kinds of dung beetles were among two dozen new species discovered in the remote plateaus of eastern Suriname, scientists said Monday. The expedition was sponsored by two mining companies hoping to excavate the area for bauxite, the raw material used to make aluminum, and it was unknown how the findings would affect their plans. Scientists discovered the species during a 2005 expedition led by the U.S.-based nonprofit Conservation International in rainforests and swamps about 80 miles southeast of Paramaribo, the capital of the South American country, organization spokesman Tom Cohen said. Among the species found were the atelopus frog, which has distinctive purple markings; six types of fish; 12 dung beetles, and one ant species, he said. The scientists called for better conservation management in the unprotected, state-owned areas, where hunting and small-scale illegal mining is common. The study was financed by Suriname Aluminum Company LLC and BHP Billiton Maatschappij Suriname. Suriname Aluminum, which has a government concession to explore gold in the area, will include the data in its environmental assessment study, said Haydi Berrenstein, a Conservation International official in Suriname, which borders Brazil, Guyana and French Guiana. About 80 percent of Suriname is covered with dense rainforest. Thousands of Brazilians and Surinamese are believed to work in illegal gold mining, creating mercury pollution that has threatened the health of Amerindians and Maroons in Suriname's interior. Associated Press writer Danica Coto in San Juan, Puerto Rico, contributed to this report. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FBN_BEARS_TANK_JOHNSON_SUSPENDED?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:50 PM EDT NFL Suspends Tank Johnson for 8 Games AP Photo/M. Spencer Green Text of 'Pacman' Jones' appeal to the NFL Super Bowl Top Play Super Bowl XLI Wrapup Super Bowl XLI Analysis Sights and Sounds of Miami Making of the Super Bowl Trophy Return of the New Orleans Superdome Broncos Sign Mammoth Tackle Sam Adams Big Case, Small Town for Vick and Dogs NFL Suspends Tank Johnson for 8 Games Retired NFL Players Get a Health Lesson Pats' Hill Honored at Memorial Service YORK (AP) -- Tank Johnson of the Chicago Bears was suspended by the NFL for the first eight games of the 2007 regular season for violating the league's new personal conduct policy. The defensive tackle recently served a two-month jail stint on a probation violation on gun-related charges. He's the third player suspended by commissioner Roger Goodell in little more than a month for off-field behavior. In April, Goodell suspended Tennessee Titans defensive back Adam "Pacman" Jones for the entire 2007 season and Cincinnati Bengals wide receiver Chris Henry for eight games. Jones is appealing his suspension. Goodell said Johnson's suspension could be reduced to six games if he has no further involvement with law enforcement and undergoes counseling. Johnson stands to lose $255,000, based on his salary for next season of $510,000, if the suspension lasts the entire eight games. After meeting with Goodell upon his release last month, Johnson said he was ready to accept whatever punishment Goodell handed down and that he wants to become the NFL's "Man of the Year," the player honored for being its best citizen. There was no statement from the league other than the short announcement of the suspension. It said Goodell would review Johnson's status before Oct. 1 to determine whether to reduce his suspension by two games. Last December, police raided the 300-pound defensive tackle's suburban Chicago home and found six unregistered firearms - a violation of his probation on an earlier gun charge. That charge stemmed from Johnson's 2005 arrest after a Chicago nightclub valet reported seeing Johnson with a handgun in his SUV. He subsequently pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge. Two days after the raid, Willie B. Posey, Johnson's bodyguard who had been arrested after the raid, was shot and killed in an early-morning fight while he and Johnson were at a Chicago nightclub. Johnson was suspended by the Bears for one game for being at the club. He played with the team in the Super Bowl. In March, Johnson began his jail term for violating his probation. Last month, he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor weapons charge as part of a deal with prosecutors that kept him from serving more time in jail. He was ordered to serve 45 days, which he was able to serve concurrently with the sentence for violating his probation. Johnson met with Goodell for 90 minutes in New York on May 18. "I feel like whatever sanction he imposes, I'm man enough to take it and I know that once I get back on the field, that chapter of my life is closed and I can move on with a sense of closure," Johnson said after the meeting. He called the commissioner "a fair man" and added: "One day I want to be the face of the league for guys who have come through adversity, came through it and ultimately became the Man of the Year in the NFL. That would be a tremendous ending to the story." &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PEOPLE_MIKE_TYSON?SITE=AZTUC&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT AP News | www.tucsoncitizen.com Register now, it's free! Order Full Page Reprints State & Local News Letters to the Editor Jun 4, 4:18 PM EDT Mike Tyson Wants to Do Bollywood Movies Dec. 29, 2006, Arrest Report Seacrest a Laughmaker in `Knocked Up' Mike Tyson Wants to Do Bollywood Movies Crowe, LaPaglia May Build Sports Stadium Johnny Depp Wins at MTV Movie Awards List of 2007 MTV Movie Awards Winners MUMBAI, India (AP) -- Mike Tyson wants to try something new - acting in Bollywood movies. Tyson said the energy on the sets of a music video he recently shot for a new comedy got him thinking about trying to do more Bollywood work, The Times of India reported Monday. The former heavyweight boxing champion said in an interview that Firoz Nadiadwala, producer of "Fool n Final," had approached him with a script. "Firoz has discussed a movie with me," the newspaper quoted Tyson as saying. "We seriously intend to work toward it," he said, without disclosing any details. Tyson, 40, danced to Bollywood music at a two-day shoot in Las Vegas last month for a music video to promote "Fool n Final," about a diamond heist. "The atmosphere was very congenial, happy and energetic," the newspaper quoted Tyson as saying. Tyson plays himself in the music video, set for release later this month. He said Nadiadwala explained the concept of the music video to him earlier this year. "I was, anyway, in that phase when I didn't mind trying out something different," he said. "The script seemed very interesting, with lots of excitement thrown in." Tyson said there are similarities between acting and boxing. "In both the fields, in order to survive and triumph, you need focus and to be highly disciplined and determined," he said. A judge in Phoenix gave Tyson permission to travel to Las Vegas to shoot the music video. Tyson is facing charges of drug possession and driving under the influence of drugs for an arrest in Scottsdale last year. Tyson had been expected to travel to India this summer to film the dance sequence, but the scene was shot in Las Vegas due to security reasons, director Ahmed Khan has said. &copy; 2007 The Associated Copyright &#169; 2007 Tucson Citizen
