http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/business/10flyboy.html	The Real Owner of All Those Planes - New York Times The Real Owner of All Those Planes Axel Koester for The New York Times Steven Udvar-Hazy, head of International Lease Finance, dictates plane design to companies like Boeing and Airbus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LOS ANGELES — When Steven Udvar-Hazy was a teenager in New York City, he would often head after school to Idlewild Airport, as Kennedy International was known then, to watch planes take off and land. Skip to next paragraph A Fleet of Airplanes, For Lease Airplanes symbolized freedom to the young Mr. Hazy, whose family moved from Hungary when he was 12. For hours, he would spot different aircraft and pore over timetables to figure out where they were coming from, or headed to. Today, if anyone were to watch planes taking off at Kennedy — or at most airports around the world — they probably would be looking at planes owned by Mr. Hazy, a billionaire three times over and one of the most powerful players in commercial aviation. As founder and chief executive of the Los Angeles-based International Lease Finance Corporation, Mr. Hazy has a fleet of 824 Boeings and Airbuses, with 254 more on order, that dwarfs any airline’s in the world. He owns more planes than the industry leader, American Airlines, which has 679, and more than the combined holdings of (265), Lufthansa (245) and But Mr. Hazy prefers to keep a low profile, a rarity in an industry that has attracted more than its share of big egos. He rarely grants interviews, and is more than happy to let his 157 customers — airlines like Cathay Pacific, Air France and American — paint their names and logos on his jets. “Not to put too fine a point on it, but in our industry, Steve Hazy is God,” said Edmund S. Greenslet, editor of . “No one has more influence than he does. He has an enormous impact on how manufacturers design their planes. He’s the financial engine for airlines around the world.” Airlines lease airplanes for the same reason that cash-short consumers lease cars — they can get new models for lower payments. Nearly half of the airplanes flying today are leased by the airlines, and Mr. Hazy, with his $45 billion portfolio, is the biggest player, as measured by dollar volume, followed by In the 35 years he has been in business, Mr. Hazy has ordered 706 jets and around 600 from Airbus, making him the top customer for both companies. And they are eagerly courting him now in advance of the Paris Air Show, where he is expected to announce a big new order. His personal wealth is measured at $3.1 billion, putting him at No. 83 on the Forbes list of richest Americans. And, Mr. Hazy’s place in aviation history was secure even before a $65 million donation helped get his name on the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Center at Dulles Airport. Mr. Hazy became a pioneer in airplane leasing while still in his 20s, and is widely credited with creating an industry now valued at $129 billion. He raised cash from a small group of fellow Hungarian émigrés and started making deals while an economics student at U.C.L.A. As a junior in 1966, he advised Aer Lingus on how to save money by reducing the aircraft types in its fleet, and, as a senior, he brokered the sale of a turboprop from Air New Zealand to Reeve Aleutian Airlines. In 1973, he founded his leasing company with two partners, and invested $150,000 to buy a used DC-8 to lease to Aeroméxico. The group soon switched to the newest models. Mr. Hazy’s two partners, a Hungarian father-and-son team, are today each worth around $1.6 billion, according to the Forbes’ list. For Mr. Hazy, aviation is as much about emotion as business. “For a lot of people, it is hard to understand what it was like to be a child behind the Iron Curtain in the 1950s, when the cold war was burning strong,” said Mr. Hazy, in an interview in his opulent office in Century City, Calif. “As a child, you get a lot of indoctrination. You feel trapped, like a prisoner. So I always associated planes with escape and freedom, and still do.” Mr. Hazy said the idea to lease aircraft came to him when he saw the shift in the late 1960s from turboprops to jet planes. “That transition involved a quantum leap in capital costs,” said Mr. Hazy, who flies his own Gulfstream V and who wore an Hermès tie with airplanes on it, airplane cuff links and an airplane lapel pin. He recounted that he saw that airlines “needed outside financing from someone friendly and catering to the industry, and not just from a bank.” Today, Mr. Hazy has a staff of 170 employees in the top two floors of the MGM Tower (his penthouse office has a working fireplace). Nearly 2,000 models of airplanes decorate his offices. “He lives and breathes the industry,” said John Leahy, the chief Airbus salesman. “When he was dating his wife, Christine, his idea of a exciting date was to go to the end of the runway and tell her about the DC-8 overhead.” His company, I.L.F.C., went public in 1983, when it had a market value of around $100 million. It was acquired by the in 1990 for $1.3 billion. In 2006, I.L.F.C. had pretax earnings of $716 million on revenue of $4.1 billion. Mr. Hazy has shown an uncanny knack for picking winners among aircraft types, and avoiding deals with airlines that went bankrupt. He buys planes with price tags like $40 million for a Boeing 737 and $200 million for a 747 (though he never pays list price, of course, since he buys in bulk and is such an important customer). He then spreads them around to many carriers, a process he calls seeding. “If we buy 50 planes,” said Mr. Hazy, “there could be 75 more sales from us indirectly.” Not surprisingly, his opinions are treated like gospel within the industry, and Boeing, Airbus and leading jet engine makers often seek out his advice. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Itineraries; Tax Bites on Travelers Go Deeper SQUARE FEET; Many Private Planes to Store, but Not Enough Hangars Buffett's Baby Is Taking a Bumpy Ride Square Feet; Little by Little, an Overnight Success More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Construction Workers Lunching on a Crossbeam, 1932 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/business/10flyboy.html?ex=1336449600&en=0736256c5b0943a7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Real Owner of All Those Planes - New York Times The Real Owner of All Those Planes Axel Koester for The New York Times Steven Udvar-Hazy, head of International Lease Finance, dictates plane design to companies like Boeing and Airbus. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LOS ANGELES — When Steven Udvar-Hazy was a teenager in New York City, he would often head after school to Idlewild Airport, as Kennedy International was known then, to watch planes take off and land. Skip to next paragraph A Fleet of Airplanes, For Lease Airplanes symbolized freedom to the young Mr. Hazy, whose family moved from Hungary when he was 12. For hours, he would spot different aircraft and pore over timetables to figure out where they were coming from, or headed to. Today, if anyone were to watch planes taking off at Kennedy — or at most airports around the world — they probably would be looking at planes owned by Mr. Hazy, a billionaire three times over and one of the most powerful players in commercial aviation. As founder and chief executive of the Los Angeles-based International Lease Finance Corporation, Mr. Hazy has a fleet of 824 Boeings and Airbuses, with 254 more on order, that dwarfs any airline’s in the world. He owns more planes than the industry leader, American Airlines, which has 679, and more than the combined holdings of (265), Lufthansa (245) and But Mr. Hazy prefers to keep a low profile, a rarity in an industry that has attracted more than its share of big egos. He rarely grants interviews, and is more than happy to let his 157 customers — airlines like Cathay Pacific, Air France and American — paint their names and logos on his jets. “Not to put too fine a point on it, but in our industry, Steve Hazy is God,” said Edmund S. Greenslet, editor of . “No one has more influence than he does. He has an enormous impact on how manufacturers design their planes. He’s the financial engine for airlines around the world.” Airlines lease airplanes for the same reason that cash-short consumers lease cars — they can get new models for lower payments. Nearly half of the airplanes flying today are leased by the airlines, and Mr. Hazy, with his $45 billion portfolio, is the biggest player, as measured by dollar volume, followed by In the 35 years he has been in business, Mr. Hazy has ordered 706 jets and around 600 from Airbus, making him the top customer for both companies. And they are eagerly courting him now in advance of the Paris Air Show, where he is expected to announce a big new order. His personal wealth is measured at $3.1 billion, putting him at No. 83 on the Forbes list of richest Americans. And, Mr. Hazy’s place in aviation history was secure even before a $65 million donation helped get his name on the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum Center at Dulles Airport. Mr. Hazy became a pioneer in airplane leasing while still in his 20s, and is widely credited with creating an industry now valued at $129 billion. He raised cash from a small group of fellow Hungarian émigrés and started making deals while an economics student at U.C.L.A. As a junior in 1966, he advised Aer Lingus on how to save money by reducing the aircraft types in its fleet, and, as a senior, he brokered the sale of a turboprop from Air New Zealand to Reeve Aleutian Airlines. In 1973, he founded his leasing company with two partners, and invested $150,000 to buy a used DC-8 to lease to Aeroméxico. The group soon switched to the newest models. Mr. Hazy’s two partners, a Hungarian father-and-son team, are today each worth around $1.6 billion, according to the Forbes’ list. For Mr. Hazy, aviation is as much about emotion as business. “For a lot of people, it is hard to understand what it was like to be a child behind the Iron Curtain in the 1950s, when the cold war was burning strong,” said Mr. Hazy, in an interview in his opulent office in Century City, Calif. “As a child, you get a lot of indoctrination. You feel trapped, like a prisoner. So I always associated planes with escape and freedom, and still do.” Mr. Hazy said the idea to lease aircraft came to him when he saw the shift in the late 1960s from turboprops to jet planes. “That transition involved a quantum leap in capital costs,” said Mr. Hazy, who flies his own Gulfstream V and who wore an Hermès tie with airplanes on it, airplane cuff links and an airplane lapel pin. He recounted that he saw that airlines “needed outside financing from someone friendly and catering to the industry, and not just from a bank.” Today, Mr. Hazy has a staff of 170 employees in the top two floors of the MGM Tower (his penthouse office has a working fireplace). Nearly 2,000 models of airplanes decorate his offices. “He lives and breathes the industry,” said John Leahy, the chief Airbus salesman. “When he was dating his wife, Christine, his idea of a exciting date was to go to the end of the runway and tell her about the DC-8 overhead.” His company, I.L.F.C., went public in 1983, when it had a market value of around $100 million. It was acquired by the in 1990 for $1.3 billion. In 2006, I.L.F.C. had pretax earnings of $716 million on revenue of $4.1 billion. Mr. Hazy has shown an uncanny knack for picking winners among aircraft types, and avoiding deals with airlines that went bankrupt. He buys planes with price tags like $40 million for a Boeing 737 and $200 million for a 747 (though he never pays list price, of course, since he buys in bulk and is such an important customer). He then spreads them around to many carriers, a process he calls seeding. “If we buy 50 planes,” said Mr. Hazy, “there could be 75 more sales from us indirectly.” Not surprisingly, his opinions are treated like gospel within the industry, and Boeing, Airbus and leading jet engine makers often seek out his advice. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Itineraries; Tax Bites on Travelers Go Deeper SQUARE FEET; Many Private Planes to Store, but Not Enough Hangars Buffett's Baby Is Taking a Bumpy Ride Square Feet; Little by Little, an Overnight Success More Articles in Business &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/technology/10basics.html	Digital cameras that minimize shutter lag - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 DIGITAL cameras are amazing. Even compact digital cameras selling for less than $100 take photographs with great resolution. Skip to next paragraph Illustration by The New York Times The point-and-shoot cameras are great, that is, as long as the subject of the photo is not moving very fast. But if the photographer is trying to catch the moment that the little soccer player kicks in his first goal or when the black Labrador leaps in the air to snag the Frisbee, then he may find a picture of an empty field or a blue sky. The compact digital camera can take so long to react after you snap the shutter release button that the moment has passed and the desired image is never captured. The problem is called shutter lag. “It’s the No. 1 dissatisfier that we hear about,” said Bob Gann, ’s digital imaging systems architect. But avoiding it, or minimizing it in the next camera you buy — well, that is a tricky problem. About 65 percent of camera buyers are buying their second or third digital camera, but this time they probably will not be focusing on the number of megapixels as they did in past purchases. (Anything over 5 megapixels is going to provide the resolution any amateur photographer needs.) Instead, they might want to think about how well that camera takes pictures, including the action shots. The problem is, camera makers do not want to tell consumers too much about that. It is not that they have anything to hide; it is just that shutter lag is too difficult a concept to communicate in ads or marketing materials in stores. “No kidding, I am trying not to geek out,” said Jerry Magee, product manager at It still is much easier to sell consumers on a camera’s price, style, color, image-stabilization abilities, wireless ability or even its many preset shooting modes like fireworks, underwater or dining. “Our emphasis is on finishing their pictures and making them as good as possible right in the camera,” said Steve Heiner, a senior technical manger at That said, “there is a little bit of a war for a camera that can take a picture quicker,” Mr. Magee said. The first problem is that shutter lag is not really shutter lag at all, but processor lag. (Feel your eyes glazing over already?) When the photographer begins to push down the button to snap the picture, sensors in the camera begin to take a series of measurements. The processor calculates the distance to the object, determines the amount of light needed and even does some balancing for color and whiteness. The processor may also have special software to focus on faces, so those calculations are run. In effect, the processor is analyzing a series of images as the button descends. Then the image is captured on the processor and sent into memory. That can take almost as long as one second. So any consumer who wants to buy a fast-acting camera merely has to look at the specification sheets, right? Well, no. Many cameras’ spec sheets do not list any number that would help a consumer make a choice. The S500, which the company said was one of its best performers for action shots, gave no clues. The Hewlett-Packard $230 Photo Smart R837, its best contestant, lists only “shot-to-shot time” of 1.5 seconds. (Some reviews said it had “shutter lag” of 0.37 second.) The Kodak EasyShare Z712 IS has a “click-to-capture” speed of 0.26 second. The specifications surrounding lag are not standardized and can be interpreted in various ways. Indeed, there is not even one standard. For instance, one might measure shutter lag in auto focus and another with manual focus, which will be much less. For example, Nikon brags that its S500 has shutter lag, in “release priority mode” — that is, from the time the button is half-pressed down to the point it is completely depressed — of just 0.005 second. A shopper might find shutter speed listed. But that alone is not very helpful. “Shutter speed is just one element,” said Chuck Westfall, a spokesman for Canon. “As long as it is reasonably fast, it doesn’t make much difference.” Better proxies for estimating shutter lag are autofocus lag and shutter-release lag if you can find that data. A conscientious shopper may find the information in reviews in camera magazines or camera Web sites. (Hint: the camera name and the words “shutter lag.”) (If you already have a camera, a rough do-it-yourself test is available at . But it is influenced by how fast your reflexes are.) Another measurement that plays into catching action shots is ISO. It is a term that was transported over from silver halide film, when it measured the fineness of the grains on the film, hence its sensitivity to light. A higher ISO could capture action better in low-light conditions. So the higher a digital camera’s ISO settings, the more able it is to nail the action shot. The $300 Kodak Z712 IS, for example, goes up to 3200. “It might not be shutter lag, but it could be the camera system may not be robust enough to capture it,” Mr. Magee said. If true, that presents an even bigger problem for consumers: they have to evaluate the quality of the chip inside the camera, a difficult job because information about the type and maker of the processor is not readily available. Some camera magazines refer to the processor, but camera buffs who write for them tend not to be electronic engineers who can describe the advantages of a Texas Instrument chip over a Zoran chip. “I’m not sure the customer needs to know that much about the processor,” Mr. Heiner of Nikon said. The shutter-lag problem is not true of all digital cameras. The digital single-lens-reflex (S.L.R.) cameras do not have a problem with shutter lag. Indeed, if someone takes a lot of action photos and is really bothered by shutter lag, the solution is to spring for a more expensive digital S.L.R. model. The good news is that the lowest end of this category has touched the upper end of the compact camera category. The Nikon D40, that maker’s cheapest digital S.L.R., sells for about $530. A DSCH9/B, a 7-megapixel point-and-shoot, albeit a pretty fancy one, goes for about $480. Photographers offer a few tips on capturing action shots with point-and-shoot cameras. If you can anticipate a shot — for instance, the birthday cake candles about to be blown out — then push the shutter-release button down halfway. Priming the auto-focus gets the process started early. When you push the button down all the way, the camera can process the information more quickly. Another trick is to point the camera to where the action will occur, push halfway, and when the action occurs, push it all the way. That means you do not follow the subject, you follow the event. In other words, if you are tracking a downhill skier slaloming through a series of flags, aim at the flags, not the skier. Camera makers also suggested using the burst mode, which quick-fires a series of photos. Shoot the first one in advance of the event and then you probably will capture the significant moment. Many cameras have a pets or children mode to capture those things that will not stand still when instructed. “It works pretty well when you have enough light,” Mr. Westfall said. As cameras simultaneously drop in price and add more features, concerns about shutter lag will diminish. “Give us a few more years and you won’t be hearing about it,” Mr. Gann of Hewlett-Packard said. “But it adds costs. We know how to make it faster, but it would cost money.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. British Miscreants Caught on Camera Face Loudspeaker Lectures NOVELTIES; For Chatting Face to Face, Webcams With a Clearer View STATE OF THE ART; Breaking The Myth Of Megapixels CIRCUITS; A Children's Camera That Lets Piglet Say 'Cheese' Computers and the Internet Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer NYT ESSENTIAL LIBRARY: OPERA Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/technology/10basics.html?ex=1336449600&en=a9198a09c3d2cf48&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Digital cameras that minimize shutter lag - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 DIGITAL cameras are amazing. Even compact digital cameras selling for less than $100 take photographs with great resolution. Skip to next paragraph Illustration by The New York Times The point-and-shoot cameras are great, that is, as long as the subject of the photo is not moving very fast. But if the photographer is trying to catch the moment that the little soccer player kicks in his first goal or when the black Labrador leaps in the air to snag the Frisbee, then he may find a picture of an empty field or a blue sky. The compact digital camera can take so long to react after you snap the shutter release button that the moment has passed and the desired image is never captured. The problem is called shutter lag. “It’s the No. 1 dissatisfier that we hear about,” said Bob Gann, ’s digital imaging systems architect. But avoiding it, or minimizing it in the next camera you buy — well, that is a tricky problem. About 65 percent of camera buyers are buying their second or third digital camera, but this time they probably will not be focusing on the number of megapixels as they did in past purchases. (Anything over 5 megapixels is going to provide the resolution any amateur photographer needs.) Instead, they might want to think about how well that camera takes pictures, including the action shots. The problem is, camera makers do not want to tell consumers too much about that. It is not that they have anything to hide; it is just that shutter lag is too difficult a concept to communicate in ads or marketing materials in stores. “No kidding, I am trying not to geek out,” said Jerry Magee, product manager at It still is much easier to sell consumers on a camera’s price, style, color, image-stabilization abilities, wireless ability or even its many preset shooting modes like fireworks, underwater or dining. “Our emphasis is on finishing their pictures and making them as good as possible right in the camera,” said Steve Heiner, a senior technical manger at That said, “there is a little bit of a war for a camera that can take a picture quicker,” Mr. Magee said. The first problem is that shutter lag is not really shutter lag at all, but processor lag. (Feel your eyes glazing over already?) When the photographer begins to push down the button to snap the picture, sensors in the camera begin to take a series of measurements. The processor calculates the distance to the object, determines the amount of light needed and even does some balancing for color and whiteness. The processor may also have special software to focus on faces, so those calculations are run. In effect, the processor is analyzing a series of images as the button descends. Then the image is captured on the processor and sent into memory. That can take almost as long as one second. So any consumer who wants to buy a fast-acting camera merely has to look at the specification sheets, right? Well, no. Many cameras’ spec sheets do not list any number that would help a consumer make a choice. The S500, which the company said was one of its best performers for action shots, gave no clues. The Hewlett-Packard $230 Photo Smart R837, its best contestant, lists only “shot-to-shot time” of 1.5 seconds. (Some reviews said it had “shutter lag” of 0.37 second.) The Kodak EasyShare Z712 IS has a “click-to-capture” speed of 0.26 second. The specifications surrounding lag are not standardized and can be interpreted in various ways. Indeed, there is not even one standard. For instance, one might measure shutter lag in auto focus and another with manual focus, which will be much less. For example, Nikon brags that its S500 has shutter lag, in “release priority mode” — that is, from the time the button is half-pressed down to the point it is completely depressed — of just 0.005 second. A shopper might find shutter speed listed. But that alone is not very helpful. “Shutter speed is just one element,” said Chuck Westfall, a spokesman for Canon. “As long as it is reasonably fast, it doesn’t make much difference.” Better proxies for estimating shutter lag are autofocus lag and shutter-release lag if you can find that data. A conscientious shopper may find the information in reviews in camera magazines or camera Web sites. (Hint: the camera name and the words “shutter lag.”) (If you already have a camera, a rough do-it-yourself test is available at . But it is influenced by how fast your reflexes are.) Another measurement that plays into catching action shots is ISO. It is a term that was transported over from silver halide film, when it measured the fineness of the grains on the film, hence its sensitivity to light. A higher ISO could capture action better in low-light conditions. So the higher a digital camera’s ISO settings, the more able it is to nail the action shot. The $300 Kodak Z712 IS, for example, goes up to 3200. “It might not be shutter lag, but it could be the camera system may not be robust enough to capture it,” Mr. Magee said. If true, that presents an even bigger problem for consumers: they have to evaluate the quality of the chip inside the camera, a difficult job because information about the type and maker of the processor is not readily available. Some camera magazines refer to the processor, but camera buffs who write for them tend not to be electronic engineers who can describe the advantages of a Texas Instrument chip over a Zoran chip. “I’m not sure the customer needs to know that much about the processor,” Mr. Heiner of Nikon said. The shutter-lag problem is not true of all digital cameras. The digital single-lens-reflex (S.L.R.) cameras do not have a problem with shutter lag. Indeed, if someone takes a lot of action photos and is really bothered by shutter lag, the solution is to spring for a more expensive digital S.L.R. model. The good news is that the lowest end of this category has touched the upper end of the compact camera category. The Nikon D40, that maker’s cheapest digital S.L.R., sells for about $530. A DSCH9/B, a 7-megapixel point-and-shoot, albeit a pretty fancy one, goes for about $480. Photographers offer a few tips on capturing action shots with point-and-shoot cameras. If you can anticipate a shot — for instance, the birthday cake candles about to be blown out — then push the shutter-release button down halfway. Priming the auto-focus gets the process started early. When you push the button down all the way, the camera can process the information more quickly. Another trick is to point the camera to where the action will occur, push halfway, and when the action occurs, push it all the way. That means you do not follow the subject, you follow the event. In other words, if you are tracking a downhill skier slaloming through a series of flags, aim at the flags, not the skier. Camera makers also suggested using the burst mode, which quick-fires a series of photos. Shoot the first one in advance of the event and then you probably will capture the significant moment. Many cameras have a pets or children mode to capture those things that will not stand still when instructed. “It works pretty well when you have enough light,” Mr. Westfall said. As cameras simultaneously drop in price and add more features, concerns about shutter lag will diminish. “Give us a few more years and you won’t be hearing about it,” Mr. Gann of Hewlett-Packard said. “But it adds costs. We know how to make it faster, but it would cost money.” Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. British Miscreants Caught on Camera Face Loudspeaker Lectures NOVELTIES; For Chatting Face to Face, Webcams With a Clearer View STATE OF THE ART; Breaking The Myth Of Megapixels CIRCUITS; A Children's Camera That Lets Piglet Say 'Cheese' Computers and the Internet Next Article in Technology (7 of 25) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial of TimesSelect now. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html?ex=1336449600&en=7aca77d7c81cfc10&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html?ex=1336449600&en=794fcef5a0a08a86&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Miracle On Ice - 1980 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html?ex=1336276800&en=111c461ec64ee6f6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html?ex=1336536000&en=1408963d3a4a8436&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents Next Article in Business (8 of 32) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer LIVE WELL ON LESS THAN YOU THINK Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html?ex=1336536000&en=616d67c5b104b2b3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Construction Workers Lunching on a Crossbeam, 1932 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Don’t have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory Next Article in Sports (4 of 26) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. California: Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Snowy Owl, Plate 121 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html?ex=1336449600&en=7aca77d7c81cfc10&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (3 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://movies2.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/movies/11late.html?ex=1336536000&en=08b42f416e1ef2fc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	28 Weeks Later - Movies - Review - New York Times MOVIE REVIEW | '28 WEEKS LATER' MORE ON '28 Weeks Later' The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Emily Beecham in &#34;28 Weeks Later,&#34; directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 Nothing satisfies the appetite for allegory quite like a movie about flesh-eating zombies. Somehow the genre, at least as practiced by its masters, has the capacity to illuminate some brute facts about the human condition and its contemporary dysfunctions. There are not many recent movies that match, for example, the social criticism undertaken by George Romero in his “Living Dead” cycle. Skip to next paragraph Anatomy of a Scene: '28 Weeks Later' Movie Minutes: '28 Weeks Later' A group of Londoners run through a tunnel as London is being firebombed in &#34;28 Weeks Later.&#34; and its new sequel, directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo, may not quite be in Mr. Romero’s league, but at their best they come close to his signature blend of grisly horror, emotional impact and biting satire. There is, of course, plenty of literal biting as well, since the virus-crazed creatures known as infecteds crave the flesh and blood of their erstwhile fellow citizens. And also their metaphorical flesh and blood. The first movie, set in the early days of a pandemic that nearly wiped out the population of Britain, followed a small band of strangers who came together to form a makeshift tribe. This time, after the first wave of the virus seems to have run its course, the focus is on families and comrades split apart and set against one another by paranoia, moral confusion and the endless conflict between the survival instinct and the call of duty. If “28 Days Later” was, in part, about the emergence of solidarity in the midst of crisis, “28 Weeks Later” is about the breakdown that occurs in what seems to be the aftermath. The DVD of Mr. Boyle’s film has two alternate endings, one slightly more comforting than the other. The hopeful conclusion (the one originally released in American theaters) turns out to be a slender thread leading to Mr. Fresnadillo’s more hectic and somewhat grimmer sequel. The story (written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo, with Mr. Boyle and his frequent collaborator, Alex Garland, on hand as executive producers) begins with a terrible failure of nerve. Fleeing a zombie attack, Don (a gaunt, appropriately anxious ) abandons his wife, Alice ( ), to a gruesome and apparently inevitable fate. A few months later, he is safe in the Green Zone, an island of security in London overseen by occupying American troops led by General Stone (Idris Elba). There, he is reunited with his children, Andy (Mackintosh Muggleton) and Tammy (Imogen Poots), who had been on a school trip to Spain during the initial outbreak. He lies to them about their mother’s fate, and his dishonesty is punished in due course. That bit about American soldiers patrolling the Green Zone — see what I mean about allegory? — may make “28 Weeks Later” sound heavy-handedly topical. But as in any good science fiction fable, the analogies it offers to contemporary reality are speculative rather than obvious. The initial benevolence of the occupation is clear enough: a shattered country needs to be put back together, its remaining population protected and reassured. It is only when things spin out of control that the inherent brutality of the situation becomes clear, but here again the movie poses intractable conundrums rather than scoring easy points. To the soldiers and the survivors alike, there are only bad choices, and doing what seems like the right thing — firebombing an open city or rescuing children from the bombs — can turn out to have horrendous consequences. Mr. Fresnadillo’s first movie, the Spanish-language thriller showed him to be a filmmaker with technical agility and a decidedly philosophical bent. Here the thinking is done on the run, as the collapse of order unfolds through scenes of panic and chaos. These are often too frenetically edited and murkily lighted to be truly scary, and the higher dose of gore — infecteds chopped up by helicopter blades; bodies exploding in blood as bullets fly into them — is not enough to increase the horror. The real terror comes at quieter moments, when aerial shots survey the echoing emptiness of London, or when Tammy and Andy sneak out of the Green Zone into the surrounding desolation. “London’s mine,” Andy exclaims, and the claustrophobic suspense of the film is occasionally leavened by a sense of adventure. The threat of death brings out noble impulses as well as selfish ones. Don’s cowardice stands in contrast to the selflessness of some of the American soldiers: Scarlet (Rose Byrne), a medical officer; Doyle (Jeremy Renner), a sniper whose conscience gets the better of him; and, more reluctantly, Flynn (Harold Perrineau), a chopper pilot with pictures of his kids taped above the windshield. “28 Weeks Later” is not for the faint of heart or the weak of stomach. It is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying, as any respectable zombie movie should be. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. The last shot brought a burst of laughter at the screening I attended, a reaction that seemed to me both an acknowledgment of Mr. Fresnadillo’s wit and a defense against his merciless rigor. Anyway, I was glad the person next to me was laughing, rather than chewing through my neck. That level of horror will have to wait for the next sequel. “28 Weeks Later” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Rabid zombies feast on living flesh, which causes their potential victims to utter an occasional obscenity. Directed by Juan Carlos Fresnadillo; written by Rowan Joffe, Mr. Fresnadillo, E. L. Lavigne and Jesus Olmo; director of photography, Enrique Chediak; edited by Chris Gill; music by John Murphy; production designer, Mark Tildesley; produced by Enrique López-Lavigne, Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich; released by Fox Atomic. Running time: 91 minutes. (Don), Rose Byrne (Scarlet), Jeremy Renner (Doyle), Harold Perrineau (Flynn), (Alice), Mackintosh Muggleton (Andy), Imogen Poots (Tammy), Idris Elba (General Stone) and Emily Beecham (Karen). Next Article in Movies (1 of 66) &#x00bb; Report a Problem Post (4.6 stars, 10 votes) Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. MOVIE SHOWTIMES AND TICKETS The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Kickin' It Old Skool Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Friday, May 11, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: Seizing the Moment There are ways to defeat the shutter lag that can mar action shots. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Real Owner of All Those Planes Steven Udvar-Hazy is a pioneer in airplane leasing, owning more airplanes than any airline in the world. Sign In to E-MAIL This Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This GREAT HOMES / GREAT HOMES A Ski Community Where There&#8217;s No Such Thing as Too Much At the Yellowstone Mountain Club in Big Sky, Mont., every home is within a short schuss of a chair lift and the rich and famous will find every possible amenity. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Nine prominent professors are leading an effort to rethink the culture of undergraduate teaching and learning at Harvard. A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html?ex=1336276800&en=111c461ec64ee6f6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (7 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html?ex=1336536000&en=1408963d3a4a8436&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents More Articles in Business &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html?ex=1336536000&en=1408963d3a4a8436&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents More Articles in Business &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents More Articles in Business &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank ARE MEN NECESSARY? Paperback Edition N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/business/11drug.html	Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing - New York Times Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Photographs by Don Petersen for The New York Times From left, Howard R. Udell, the top lawyer for Purdue Pharma; Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, the company&#146;s former medical director; and Michael Friedman, Purdue&#146;s president. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 ABINGDON, Va., May 10 — The company that makes the painkiller and three of its current and former executives pleaded guilty Thursday in federal court here to criminal charges that it had misled doctors and patients when it claimed the drug was less likely to be abused than traditional narcotics. Skip to next paragraph Plea Agreement as to The Purdue Frederick Company Plea Agreement as to Howard R. Udell Plea Agreement as to Michael Friedman Plea Agreement as to Paul D. Goldenheim Back Story With The Times's Barry Meier ( The company, Purdue Pharma, agreed to pay $600 million in fines and other payments to resolve the criminal charge of “misbranding” the product, one of the largest amounts ever paid by a drug company in such a case. The three executives, including its president and its top lawyer, also pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of misbranding the drug. Together, they agreed to pay $34.5 million in fines. The guilty plea — by Purdue Frederick, an affiliate of Purdue Pharma — is the latest of a number of cases brought by the Justice Department against pharmaceutical makers that accuse them of misbranding, a broad statute that makes it a crime to put false or misleading information about a drug on its label or in ads, or to promote it for unapproved use. , pleaded guilty Thursday to making false statements to the government involving its anti-clotting medicine Plavix. [Page C3.] The Purdue plea underscores the growing pressure on the drug industry over its marketing. On Wednesday, the Senate passed a bill to give the Food and Drug Administration power to oversee drug advertising and labels, and to restrict the distribution of risky medicines. OxyContin is a powerful, long-acting narcotic that provides relief of serious pain for up to 12 hours. Initially, Purdue Pharma contended that OxyContin, because of its time-release formulation, posed a lower threat of abuse and addiction to patients than traditional, faster-acting painkillers like Percocet or Vicodin. That claim became the linchpin of an aggressive marketing campaign that helped the company sell over $1 billion worth of OxyContin a year. Purdue Pharma, based in Stamford, Conn., heavily promoted OxyContin to doctors like general practitioners, who often had little training in treating serious pain or in recognizing signs of drug abuse. But experienced drug abusers and novices, including teenagers, soon discovered that chewing an OxyContin tablet — or crushing one and then snorting the powder, or injecting it with a needle — produced a high as powerful as heroin. OxyContin is a pure, high-strength version of a long-used narcotic, oxycodone. By 2000, parts of the United States, particularly rural areas, began to see soaring rates of addiction and crime related to use of the drug. At a news conference Thursday in Roanoke, Va., John L. Brownlee, the United States attorney for the Western District of Virginia, said the impact of Purdue’s marketing of OxyContin had resulted in rising crime rates, teenage drug addiction, deaths and other problems. “The results of Purdue’s crimes were staggering,” he said. In a statement, the company said the three executives were not aware of the wrongdoing by other company employees. Misdemeanor charges of “misbranding” can be brought against corporate executives even if they are unaware of such crimes. The three men — Michael Friedman, the president; Howard R. Udell, its top lawyer; and Dr. Paul D. Goldenheim, its former medical director — led Purdue at the time of the crimes. The developments marked a sharp reversal for Purdue Pharma, a privately held company. Its executives had defeated hundreds of lawsuits from patients claiming that they became addicted to OxyContin. They also rebuffed critics, including some in Congress, who said that the company’s aggressive marketing of OxyContin may have spurred its abuse. The company’s defenders included the former New York mayor, , whose firm was hired in 2002 by Purdue Pharma as part of a crisis management strategy and to improve security at its manufacturing plant. More recently, Mr. Giuliani, acting as a lawyer for Purdue, took part in several meetings last year between Justice Department officials and defense lawyers for the company and individual executives. Melanie Hillis, a spokeswoman for the Bracewell & Giuliani law firm, which is based in Houston, said that Purdue Pharma was a client of the firm. She said Mr. Giuliani had not been involved in representing the company for several months. The company and the three executives pleaded guilty at a small courthouse in this small city at the edge of Appalachia, a region where OxyContin abuse became so widespread that the drug was dubbed “hillbilly heroin.” Mr. Brownlee and other prosecutors decided to investigate Purdue Pharma after bringing cases against drug addicts as well as local doctors accused of illegally prescribing the drug. “I think we had a responsibility to bring cases against everyone who was making money,” Mr. Brownlee said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Drug Maker Named in Lawsuits Over OxyContin OxyContin Manufacturer Seeks Delay of Rival Drugs Connecticut to Investigate OxyContin Maker Judge Says Maker Of OxyContin Misled Officials To Win Patents More Articles in Business &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank ARE MEN NECESSARY? Paperback Edition N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html?ex=1336536000&en=616d67c5b104b2b3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html?ex=1336536000&en=616d67c5b104b2b3&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Yankee Stadium, Opening Day - 1923 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09mini.html?ex=1336363200&en=e39f14d761f1b0bc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks - New York Times A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Tony Cenicola/The New York Times See a key to the items in this photograph Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 THE question I’m asked more often than any other is, “What kitchen equipment should I buy?” Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times 10-inch nonstick frying pan, $12.95. Like cookbooks, kitchen equipment is a talisman; people believe that buying the right kind will make them good cooks. Yet some of the best cooks I’ve known worked with a battered batterie de cuisine: dented pots and pans scarred beyond recognition, an old steak knife turned into an all-purpose tool, a pot lid held just so to strain pasta when the colander was missing, a food processor with a busted switch. They didn’t complain and they didn’t apologize; they just cooked. But famous TV chefs use gorgeous name-brand equipment, you might say. And you’d be right. But a.) they get much of that stuff free, the manufacturers hoping that placing it in the hands of a well-known chef will make you think it’s essential; b.) they want their equipment to be pretty, so you’ll think they’re important; and c.) see above: a costly knife is not a talisman and you are not a TV chef. Finally (and this is crucial), the best chefs may use the best-looking equipment when they are in public view, but when it is time to buy equipment for the people who actually prepare those $200 restaurant meals, they go to a restaurant supply house to shop for the everyday cookware I recommend to people all the time. In fact, I contend that with a bit of savvy, patience and a willingness to forgo steel-handle knives, copper pots and other extravagant items, $200 can equip a basic kitchen that will be adequate for just about any task, and $300 can equip one quite well. To prove my point I put together a list of everything needed for almost any cooking task. I bought most of the equipment at Bowery Restaurant Supply, 183 Bowery Street (Delancey Street), where the bill came to just about $200. Throw in a few items the store didn’t have and a few extras, and the total would be about $300. (New York happens to have scores of restaurant supply shops, but every metropolitan area has at least one.) I started with an eight-inch, plastic-handle stainless alloy chef’s knife for $10. This is probably the most essential tool in the kitchen. People not only obsess about knives (and write entire articles about them), but you can easily spend over $100 on just one. Yet go into any restaurant kitchen and you will see most of the cooks using this same plastic-handle Dexter-Russell tool. (Go to the wrong store and you’ll spend $20 or even $30 on the same knife.) I found an instant-read thermometer, a necessity for beginning cooks and obsessive-compulsives, for $5. Three stainless steel bowls — not gorgeous and maybe a little thin — set me back about $5. You are reading that right. Sturdy tongs, an underappreciated tool: $3.50 (don’t buy them too long, make sure the spring is nice and tight, and don’t shop for them at a “culinary” store, where they’ll cost four times as much). For less than $6 I picked up a sturdy sheet pan. It’s not an ideal cookie sheet but it’s useful for roasting and baking (not a bad tray, either, and one of the more common items in restaurant kitchens). A plastic cutting board was about the same price. For aesthetic purposes I’d rather have wood, but plastic can go into the dishwasher. At $3, a paring knife was so cheap I could replace it every year or two. I splurged on a Japanese mandoline for $25. (It’s not indispensable, but since my knife skills are pathetic, I use mine whenever I want thin, even slices or a real julienne.) You, or the college graduate you are thinking of, might own some of the things I bought: a $4 can opener; a vegetable peeler (I like the U-shaped type, which cost me $3); a colander ($7, and I probably could’ve gotten one cheaper). You are thinking to yourself: “Humph. He’s ignoring pots and pans, the most expensive items of all.” Au contraire, my friend; I bought five, and I could live with four (though I’d rather have six): a small, medium and large cast-aluminum saucepan (total: about $30); a medium nonstick cast aluminum pan (10-inch; $13); and a large steep-sided, heavier duty steel pan (14-inch; $25). I bought a single lid ($5; I often use plates or whatever’s handy for lids because I can never find the right one anyway). Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. HABITATS/Brooklyn Heights; 4-Star Dinners Conjured From A 1-Star Kitchen THE MEDIA EQUATION; Rachael Ray Gives the Gift Of Time Top of the Food Chain Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California More Articles in National &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Saturday, May 12, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play With its temperate climate, Monterey, Calif., provides year-round outdoor fun, including sailing, kayaking, biking and marine creature-watching expeditions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Sign In to E-MAIL This By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH More companies are cutting down on packaging to reduce expenses and address growing environmental concerns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Saturday, May 12, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play With its temperate climate, Monterey, Calif., provides year-round outdoor fun, including sailing, kayaking, biking and marine creature-watching expeditions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Sign In to E-MAIL This By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH More companies are cutting down on packaging to reduce expenses and address growing environmental concerns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This David Brooks: The Human Community Tony Blair&#8217;s decision to support the invasion of Iraq grew out of the essence of who he is. The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/sports/basketball/11utah.html	Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later - New York Times Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 OAKLAND, Calif., May 10 — Derek Fisher had 30 minutes Tuesday morning to decide whether to remove his daughter’s left eye. Skip to next paragraph Fisher, a point guard for the , sat in an office at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York, across from Dr. David Abramson and Dr. Pierre Gobin, asking them how to cure the cancer that had formed in his baby girl’s retina. “He really had three choices,” Abramson said. “Remove the eye, remove the eye or remove the eye.” Last week in Salt Lake City, an advanced case of retinoblastoma, a cancerous tumor of the retina found in about 300 children a year, was diagnosed in Fisher’s 10-month-old daughter, Tatum. Removing the eye is the most common way to remove the tumor. There was one other option, but it seemed too risky. Last year, Abramson and Gobin developed a procedure called intra-arterial chemotherapy, which allows them to treat the disease without removing an eye. Fisher asked about intra-arterial chemotherapy. “I’m not sure how he knew about it,” Abramson said. “He must have done a lot of homework.” Abramson and Gobin have used intra-arterial chemotherapy on only 14 patients. They have not published anything about the procedure. Abramson planned to present it at a scientific meeting next month in Italy. Their secret is out now. Fisher and his wife, Candace, made a joint decision to go ahead with the procedure. The doctors explained that they would have to inject a high dose of chemotherapy into the artery that leads to Tatum’s left eye. “They wanted to try this new technique,” Gobin said. “Anywhere else in the world, this would not have happened.” The procedure was scheduled for Wednesday morning at , but Abramson knew that the Jazz had a playoff game Wednesday night. Abramson is no basketball fan, but he was an alternate on the 1960 United States Olympic swim team, so he understands the pull of athletic competition. Abramson asked Fisher whether they should try to push the appointment back. “Absolutely not,” Abramson recalls Fisher telling him. “Just do what’s best for my child. How many games I miss in the playoffs is totally irrelevant.” Abramson was still not convinced. “I understand,” he remembered telling Fisher. “But this is the pinnacle of what you do. Maybe we can make some adjustments.” Fisher was unmoved. “Absolutely not,” he said again. The procedure went off as scheduled. Abramson and Gobin said they did not rush, but they were aware of the clock. Gobin, who grew up in France, spent nine years at U.C.L.A. Medical Center, rooting for the when Fisher was their point guard. Abramson and Gobin told Fisher late Wednesday afternoon that the procedure was a success, clearing the whole family to fly back to Salt Lake City. On the Jazz’s private jet, Fisher started to visualize Utah’s opponent, the Golden State Warriors. Fisher had a police escort from the airport to the arena. He got a standing ovation when he walked through the tunnel in the third quarter. Instead of going to the bench, he strode right to the scorer’s table, and then onto the floor. “You’re talking about Willis Reed walking in,” Golden State Coach Don Nelson said. Utah’s starting point guard, Deron Williams, had just picked up his fourth foul. Another Utah point guard, Dee Brown, was at the hospital being treated for a neck injury. Fisher, who skipped Game 1 to be with his daughter, could not miss another minute. It had been four days since Fisher shot a basketball, but he caused a key turnover in the fourth quarter and sank a clutch 3-pointer from the corner in overtime, sealing the victory and putting the Jazz ahead, 2-0, with Game 3 on Friday in Oakland. “Sometimes you don’t want to offend people who don’t believe in the Lord,” Fisher told reporters Thursday. “But I definitely think last night was some form of divine intervention.” The doctors were most interested in what Fisher did after the game, when he stood in front of a national television audience, describing the dangers of retinoblastoma and urging parents everywhere to get their children’s eyes checked. Fisher found a way to make an obscure disease part of the playoff subtext. “We could have lost my little girl if we waited any longer,” Fisher said. It was a vintage moment for a basketball ambassador. Fisher has been in the N.B.A. for 11 years, has won three championships and has served as president of the players union. He spent the past two seasons in Golden State, before being traded to Utah, so even the Warriors seemed a little bit happy for him. “Derek was a great teammate and a great leader,” Golden State’s Jason Richardson said. “Everybody looked up to him, trying to find out how to get to his level.” Fisher has made plenty of momentous shots in his career, most notably a turnaround jumper for the Lakers with .04 of a second left at San Antonio in the 2004 playoffs. But he has always been best known for his poise and decision making. Tatum will return to New York in three weeks for another eye exam. If the tumor is shrinking, as Abramson and Gobin predict, she will undergo another treatment of intra-arterial chemotherapy. Most patients require two or three treatments. Fisher cannot relax just yet. He still has doctors’ appointments to schedule and basketball games to play and one unique new cause to rally around. Howard Beck contributed reporting. More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PRO BASKETBALL; Fisher Completes Deal With Golden State PRO BASKETBALL; Role Players for Lakers Play an Important Role PRO BASKETBALL; The Spurs Win ... No, Wait, the Lakers Win ROUNDUP: N.B.A.; Fisher Has His Hand in Lakers' Victory More Articles in Sports &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard - New York Times Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 11, 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed 2 Survive Crash Of Small Plane In California More Articles in National &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Jackie and Krushchev 1961 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Jackie and Krushchev 1961 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/09/dining/09curi.html?ex=1336363200&en=241e6d2a12065c24&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? - New York Times The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 9, 2007 A COUPLE of weeks ago I saw a new scientific paper from that struck me as both pioneering and hilarious. Skip to next paragraph Accompanied by six graphs, two tables and equations whose terms include “bologna” and “carpet,” it’s a thorough microbiological study of the five-second rule: the idea that if you pick up a dropped piece of food before you can count to five, it’s O.K. to eat it. I first heard about the rule from my then-young children and thought it was just a way of having fun at snack time and lunch. My daughter now tells me that fun was part of it, but they knew they were playing with “germs.” We’re reminded about germs on food whenever there’s an outbreak of E. coli or salmonella, and whenever we read the labels on packages of uncooked meat. But we don’t have much occasion to think about the everyday practice of retrieving and eating dropped pieces of food. Microbes are everywhere around us, not just on floors. They thrive in wet kitchen sponges and end up on freshly wiped countertops. As I write this column, on an airplane, I realize that I have removed a chicken sandwich from its protective plastic sleeve and put it down repeatedly on the sleeve’s outer surface, which was meant to protect the sandwich by blocking microbes. What’s on the outer surface? Without the five-second rule on my mind I wouldn’t have thought to wonder. I learned from the Clemson study that the true pioneer of five-second research was Jillian Clarke, a high-school intern at the in 2003. Ms. Clarke conducted a survey and found that slightly more than half of the men and 70 percent of the women knew of the five-second rule, and many said they followed it. She did an experiment by contaminating ceramic tiles with E. coli, placing gummy bears and cookies on the tiles for the statutory five seconds, and then analyzing the foods. They had become contaminated with bacteria. For performing this first test of the five-second rule, Ms. Clarke was recognized by the Annals of Improbable Research with the 2004 Ig Nobel Prize in public health. It’s not surprising that food dropped onto bacteria would collect some bacteria. But how many? Does it collect more as the seconds tick by? Enough to make you sick? Prof. Paul L. Dawson and his colleagues at Clemson have now put some numbers on floor-to-food contamination. Their bacterium of choice was salmonella; the test surfaces were tile, wood flooring and nylon carpet; and the test foods were slices of bread and bologna. First the researchers measured how long bacteria could survive on the surfaces. They applied salmonella broth in doses of several million bacteria per square centimeter, a number typical of badly contaminated food. I had thought that most bacteria were sensitive to drying out, but after 24 hours of exposure to the air, thousands of bacteria per square centimeter had survived on the tile and wood, and tens of thousands on the carpet. Hundreds of salmonella were still alive after 28 days. Professor Dawson and colleagues then placed test food slices onto salmonella-painted surfaces for varying lengths of time, and counted how many live bacteria were transferred to the food. On surfaces that had been contaminated eight hours earlier, slices of bologna and bread left for five seconds took up from 150 to 8,000 bacteria. Left for a full minute, slices collected about 10 times more than that from the tile and carpet, though a lower number from the wood. What do these numbers tell us about the five-second rule? Quick retrieval does mean fewer bacteria, but it’s no guarantee of safety. True, Jillian Clarke found that the number of bacteria on the floor at the University of Illinois was so low it couldn’t be measured, and the Clemson researchers resorted to extremely high contamination levels for their tests. But even if a floor — or a countertop, or wrapper — carried only a thousandth the number of bacteria applied by the researchers, the piece of food would be likely to pick up several bacteria. The infectious dose, the smallest number of bacteria that can actually cause illness, is as few as 10 for some salmonellas, fewer than 100 for the deadly strain of E. coli. Of course we can never know for sure how many harmful microbes there are on any surface. But we know enough now to formulate the five-second rule, version 2.0: If you drop a piece of food, pick it up quickly, take five seconds to recall that just a few bacteria can make you sick, then take a few more to think about where you dropped it and whether or not it’s worth eating. Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. F.D.A. Says Livestock Were Fed Pet Food With Suspect Chemical China Yields To Inquiry On Pet Food Tainted Pet Food Is Said to Be Still on Shelves Some Suspect Chemical Mix In Pet Food Food Contamination and Poisoning Next Article in Dining & Wine (4 of 17) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html?ex=1336449600&en=7aca77d7c81cfc10&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/nyregion/10rent.html?ex=1336449600&en=7aca77d7c81cfc10&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze - New York Times New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Robert Stolarik for The New York Times Kate Harvey, left, and Rebecca Kotler Wein, lived in an office with seven roommates. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Like the legions of aspiring poets, tap dancers and musicians who came before her, Nina Rubin, a 29-year-old graduate of , has struggled to find halfway decent housing in New York. Earlier this year, she ended up in her most unusual home yet: an office. Skip to next paragraph After taking a job as an instructor at Outward Bound, Ms. Rubin, along with some of her co-workers, settled into the top floor of the organization’s Long Island City headquarters. She camped out in a bunk bed; others converted nearby office cubicles into sleeping spaces, or pitched tents on the building’s roof. To create some privacy, they hung towels and sheets around their bunks. While Outward Bound officials stress that they view these cubicles and tents as temporary housing solutions, Ms. Rubin, who has since moved to Vermont for a short while, was grateful for a free place. As the apartment-hunting season begins, fueled by college graduates and other new arrivals, real estate brokers say radical solutions among young, well-educated newcomers to the city are becoming more common, because New York’s rental market is the tightest it has been in seven years. High-paid bankers and corporate lawyers snap up the few available apartments, often leading more modestly paid professionals and students to resort to desperate measures to find homes. While young people in New York have always sought roommates to make life more affordable, they are now crowding so tightly into doorman buildings in prime neighborhoods like the Upper East Side that they may violate city codes. They are doing so in part because the vacancy rate for Manhattan rentals is now estimated at 3.7 percent, according to data collected by Property and Portfolio Research, an independent real estate research and advisory firm in Boston. It is expected to shrink to 3.3 percent by the end of this year and to 2.9 percent by 2011. “It’s only going to get more difficult to rent an apartment in ,” said Andy Joynt, a real estate economist with the research firm. “While rents continue to rise, it’s not sending people out of the city. There’s still enough of a cachet,” he said. While New York City has always had a vacancy rate lower than most other cities, rental prices jumped last year by a record 8.3 percent. Some potential buyers, scared by the national slowdown in housing sales, decided to rent instead of buy. The housing crunch has also been exacerbated by the steady growth of newcomers. The relocation division of the brokerage company Prudential Douglas Elliman had found homes for 4,000 families moving to the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut area in 2006, a 15 percent jump from the year before, and many of them wanted to live in Manhattan. Stephen Kotler, executive vice president of the division, said he expected business to increase by 15 percent again this year, based on the requests he has already received from banks, consumer-products companies and media firms. Even though his clients can afford high rents, he said, they do not have many choices. “There’s going to be limited inventory and a lot of demand,” Mr. Kotler said. “There just hasn’t been enough rental product built,” he said, as, developers have said that the price of land and the costs of construction in the last few years have made it impractical to build rental buildings. They have instead focused on condominiums. Renters without high salaries have not been shut out of the market. They are squeezing in extra roommates or making alterations as never before much to the frustration of landlords. The rents for one-bedroom apartments in Manhattan average $2,567 a month, and two-bedrooms average $3,854 a month, according to data from Citi Habitats, a large rental brokerage company, but rents tend to be far higher in coveted neighborhoods like the Upper West Side and TriBeCa. Because landlords typically require renters to earn 40 times their monthly rent in annual income, renters of those average apartments would need to earn at least $102,680, individually or combined, to qualify for a one-bedroom and $154,160 to afford a two-bedroom. Young people making a fraction of those salaries are doubling up in small spaces and creating housing code violations, said Jamie Heiberger-Jacobsen, a real estate lawyer with her own practice. She is representing landlords in 26 cases that claim overcrowding or illegal alterations in elevator buildings in Murray Hill, the Upper East and Upper West Sides and the Lower East Side. A year ago, she handled a half-dozen such cases. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Board Urges Modest Range for Rises in Stabilized Rents SQUARE FEET; Placing Bets on a Strong Manhattan Market Rexford Tompkins, 90; Helped Shape City's Rent Stabilization City Seeks Broader Power to Fix Troubled Buildings at Landlords' Expense More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/health/10psyche.html?ex=1336449600&en=027f7583aa3fc3c4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry’s Role Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times Anya Bailey is among a growing number of children given antipsychotic drugs by doctors who are paid by the makers of those drugs. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS Published: May 10, 2007 When Anya Bailey developed an after her 12th birthday, her mother took her to a psychiatrist at the who prescribed a powerful antipsychotic drug called Risperdal. Skip to next paragraph The New York Times , Risperdal is not approved to treat eating disorders, but increased appetite is a common side effect and doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Anya gained weight but within two years developed a crippling knot in her back. She now receives regular injections of Botox to unclench her back muscles. She often awakens crying in pain. Isabella Bailey, Anya’s mother, said she had no idea that children might be especially susceptible to Risperdal’s side effects. Nor did she know that Risperdal and similar medicines were not approved at the time to treat children, or that medical trials often cited to justify the use of such drugs had as few as eight children taking the drug by the end. Just as surprising, Ms. Bailey said, was learning that the university psychiatrist who supervised Anya’s care received more than $7,000 from 2003 to 2004 from Johnson & Johnson, Risperdal’s maker, in return for lectures about one of the company’s drugs. Doctors, including Anya Bailey’s, maintain that payments from drug companies do not influence what they prescribe for patients. But the intersection of money and medicine, and its effect on the well-being of patients, has become one of the most contentious issues in health care. Nowhere is that more true than in psychiatry, where increasing payments to doctors have coincided with the growing use in children of a relatively new class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics. These best-selling drugs, including Risperdal, Seroquel, Zyprexa, Abilify and Geodon, are now being prescribed to more than half a million children in the United States to help parents deal with behavior problems despite profound risks and almost no approved uses for minors. A New York Times analysis of records in Minnesota, the only state that requires public reports of all drug company marketing payments to doctors, provides rare documentation of how financial relationships between doctors and drug makers correspond to the growing use of atypicals in children. From 2000 to 2005, drug maker payments to Minnesota psychiatrists rose more than sixfold, to $1.6 million. During those same years, prescriptions of antipsychotics for children in Minnesota’s Medicaid program rose more than ninefold. Those who took the most money from makers of atypicals tended to prescribe the drugs to children the most often, the data suggest. On average, Minnesota psychiatrists who received at least $5,000 from atypical makers from 2000 to 2005 appear to have written three times as many atypical prescriptions for children as psychiatrists who received less or no money. The Times analysis focused on prescriptions written for about one-third of Minnesota’s Medicaid population, almost all of whom are disabled. Some doctors were misidentified by pharmacists, but the information provides a rough guide to prescribing patterns in the state. Drug makers underwrite decision makers at every level of care. They pay doctors who prescribe and recommend drugs, teach about the underlying diseases, perform studies and write guidelines that other doctors often feel bound to follow. But studies present strong evidence that financial interests can affect decisions, often without people knowing it. In Minnesota, psychiatrists collected more money from drug makers from 2000 to 2005 than doctors in any other specialty. Total payments to individual psychiatrists ranged from $51 to more than $689,000, with a median of $1,750. Since the records are incomplete, these figures probably underestimate doctors’ actual incomes. Such payments could encourage psychiatrists to use drugs in ways that endanger patients’ physical health, said Dr. Steven E. Hyman, the provost of and former director of the National Institute of Mental Health. The growing use of atypicals in children is the most troubling example of this, Dr. Hyman said. “There’s an irony that psychiatrists ask patients to have insights into themselves, but we don’t connect the wires in our own lives about how money is affecting our profession and putting our patients at risk,” he said. Anya Bailey is a 15-year-old high school freshman from East Grand Forks, Minn., with pictures of the actor Chad Michael Murray on her bedroom wall. She has constant discomfort in her neck that leads her to twist it in a birdlike fashion. Last year, a boy mimicked her in the lunch room. “The first time, I laughed it off,” Anya said. “I said: ‘That’s so funny. I think I’ll laugh with you.’ Then it got annoying, and I decided to hide it. I don’t want to be made fun of.” Now she slumps when seated at school to pressure her clenched muscles, she said. It all began in 2003 when Anya became dangerously thin. “Nothing tasted good to her,” Ms. Bailey said. This article is by Gardiner Harris, Benedict Carey and Janet Roberts. Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Johnson & Johnson Inc Next Article in Health (4 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Saturday, May 12, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Sign In to E-MAIL This By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH More companies are cutting down on packaging to reduce expenses and address growing environmental concerns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play With its temperate climate, Monterey, Calif., provides year-round outdoor fun, including sailing, kayaking, biking and marine creature-watching expeditions. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / MIDDLE EAST Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says The report reinforced longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country&#8217;s oil industry. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Saturday, May 12, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don&#8217;t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Is it safe to eat a piece of food that fell to the floor but was picked up in less that five seconds? Scientists recently put the five-second rule through some microbiology paces. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Gorgeous, name-brand pots, pans and gadgets sure are nice, but are they necessary? No, and here&#8217;s how a good cook can outfit an entire kitchen for under $300. Sign In to E-MAIL This Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Sign In to E-MAIL This New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Real estate brokers say radical solutions for housing among newcomers are becoming more common. Sign In to E-MAIL This Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role By GARDINER HARRIS, BENEDICT CAREY and JANET ROBERTS The intersection of money and medicine has become one of the most contentious issues in psychiatry. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Research into the genetics of obesity indicates that each person has a comfortable weight range to which the body gravitates. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / PRO BASKETBALL Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Utah point guard Derek Fisher put his daughter&#8217;s health before the playoffs Wednesday, missing most of the game. He then returned to seal the win for the Jazz. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing The company that makes the painkiller OxyContin pleaded guilty to criminal charges that the firm had misled doctors and patients. Sign In to E-MAIL This Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies By A. O. SCOTT &#8220;28 Weeks Later&#8221; is brutal and almost exhaustingly terrifying. It is also bracingly smart, both in its ideas and in its techniques. Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / ASIA PACIFIC Pressed by Police, Even Innocent Confess in Japan Recent criminal cases have shown just how far the Japanese authorities will go in securing confessions. Sign In to E-MAIL This Music: Off the Beaten Beat Away from the bright lights of New York&#8217;s music scene, many artists are finding new performance spaces in strange, intimate locales. Sign In to E-MAIL This ARTS / ART & DESIGN Harlem&#8217;s Cultural Anchor in a Sea of Ideas By FELICIA R. LEE As the Schomburg Center unveils its $11 million facelift, Harlem itself is also undergoing one of its periodic renaissances. Sign In to E-MAIL This Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. Sign In to E-MAIL This By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH More companies are cutting down on packaging to reduce expenses and address growing environmental concerns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Weekend With the Kids: In Monterey, Where Sea Lions and Children Are at Play With its temperate climate, Monterey, Calif., provides year-round outdoor fun, including sailing, kayaking, biking and marine creature-watching expeditions. Sign In to E-MAIL This In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: Mr. Bush Alone President Bush has yet to acknowledge the reality in Iraq that Congressional Republicans and even administration officials like Defense Secretary Robert Gates now seem to tacitly accept. Sign In to E-MAIL This 36 Hours in St. Petersburg, Russia By CLIFFORD J. LEVY The former Russian capital has recaptured much of its glamour and offers an enchanting landscape not only for lovers of culture but for their children as well. Sign In to E-MAIL This A new federally backed study shows that juveniles who do time as adults later commit more violent crime than those who are handled through the juvenile courts. Sign In to E-MAIL This A White Tie Kind of Guy So President Bush, it seems, confounded expectations and managed to keep it together for Queen Elizabeth II&acirc;&#128;&#153;s state visit this week. He didn&acirc;&#128;&#153;t slobber, chug-a-lug from an Evian bottle, spew bits of buttered roll or engage in any impromptu shoulder massages. Bully for him. His only slip-up came when he had a bit of a sequencing problem [...] Sign In to E-MAIL This INTERNATIONAL / MIDDLE EAST Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Says The report reinforced longstanding suspicions that smugglers, insurgents and corrupt officials control significant parts of the country&#8217;s oil industry. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: A Nobel for the Sandman The feats that Sandman performs in comic books and in &#8220;Spider-Man 3&#8221; often correctly display the fascinating properties of granular materials. The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (11 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Correction: May 12, 2007 An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the role of genes in weight gain misstated the publication date for an article in the journal Science describing the biological controls over body weight. The article was published in 2003, not 2000. Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Liberty Framed by World Trade Center, 1983 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Correction: May 12, 2007 An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the role of genes in weight gain misstated the publication date for an article in the journal Science describing the biological controls over body weight. The article was published in 2003, not 2000. Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Liberty Framed by World Trade Center, 1983 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html?ex=1336276800&en=111c461ec64ee6f6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Correction: May 12, 2007 An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the role of genes in weight gain misstated the publication date for an article in the journal Science describing the biological controls over body weight. The article was published in 2003, not 2000. Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/08/health/08fat.html?ex=1336276800&en=111c461ec64ee6f6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 8, 2007 It was 1959. Jules Hirsch, a research physician at , had gotten curious about weight loss in the obese. He was about to start a simple experiment that would change forever the way scientists think about fat. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Jules Hirsch, a research physician at Rockefeller University, conducted a simple but groundbreaking experiment on obesity nearly 50 years ago, changing the way scientists think about fat. Gina Kolata answered readers' questions about this article. Obese people, he knew, had huge fat cells, stuffed with glistening yellow fat. What happened to those cells when people lost weight, he wondered. Did they shrink or did they go away? He decided to find out. It seemed straightforward. Dr. Hirsch found eight people who had been fat since childhood or adolescence and who agreed to live at the Rockefeller University Hospital for eight months while scientists would control their diets, make them lose weight and then examine their fat cells. The study was rigorous and demanding. It began with an agonizing four weeks of a maintenance that assessed the subjects’ metabolism and caloric needs. Then the diet began. The only food permitted was a liquid formula providing 600 calories a day, a regimen that guaranteed they would lose weight. Finally, the subjects spent another four weeks on a diet that maintained them at their new weights, 100 pounds lower than their initial weights, on average. Dr. Hirsch answered his original question — the subjects’ fat cells had shrunk and were now normal in size. And everyone, including Dr. Hirsch, assumed that the subjects would leave the hospital permanently thinner. That did not happen. Instead, Dr. Hirsch says, “they all regained.” He was horrified. The study subjects certainly wanted to be thin, so what went wrong? Maybe, he thought, they had some deep-seated psychological need to be fat. So Dr. Hirsch and his colleagues, including Dr. Rudolph L. Leibel, who is now at , repeated the experiment and repeated it again. Every time the result was the same. The weight, so painstakingly lost, came right back. But since this was a research study, the investigators were also measuring metabolic changes, psychiatric conditions, body temperature and pulse. And that led them to a surprising conclusion: fat people who lost large amounts of weight might look like someone who was never fat, but they were very different. In fact, by every metabolic measurement, they seemed like people who were starving. Before the diet began, the fat subjects’ metabolism was normal — the number of calories burned per square meter of body surface was no different from that of people who had never been fat. But when they lost weight, they were burning as much as 24 percent fewer calories per square meter of their surface area than the calories consumed by those who were naturally thin. The Rockefeller subjects also had a psychiatric syndrome, called semi-starvation neurosis, which had been noticed before in people of normal weight who had been starved. They dreamed of food, they fantasized about food or about breaking their diet. They were anxious and depressed; some had thoughts of . They secreted food in their rooms. And they binged. The Rockefeller researchers explained their observations in one of their papers: “It is entirely possible that weight reduction, instead of resulting in a normal state for obese patients, results in an abnormal state resembling that of starved nonobese individuals.” Eventually, more than 50 people lived at the hospital and lost weight, and every one had physical and psychological signs of starvation. There were a very few who did not get fat again, but they made staying thin their life’s work, becoming Weight Watchers lecturers, for example, and, always, counting calories and maintaining themselves in a permanent state of starvation. “Did those who stayed thin simply have more willpower?” Dr. Hirsch asked. “In a funny way, they did.” One way to interpret Dr. Hirsch and Dr. Leibel’s studies would be to propose that once a person got fat, the body would adjust, making it hopeless to lose weight and keep it off. The issue was important, because if getting fat was the problem, there might be a solution to the epidemic: convince people that any weight gain was a step toward an irreversible condition that they most definitely did not want to have. But another group of studies showed that that hypothesis, too, was wrong. It began with studies that were the inspiration of Dr. Ethan Sims at the , who asked what would happen if thin people who had never had a weight problem deliberately got fat. His subjects were prisoners at a nearby state prison who volunteered to gain weight. With great difficulty, they succeeded, increasing their weight by 20 percent to 25 percent. But it took them four to six months, eating as much as they could every day. Some consumed 10,000 calories a day, an amount so incredible that it would be hard to believe, were it not for the fact that there were attendants present at each meal who dutifully recorded everything the men ate. Once the men were fat, their metabolisms increased by 50 percent. They needed more than 2,700 calories per square meter of their body surface to stay fat but needed just 1,800 calories per square meter to maintain their normal weight. When the study ended, the prisoners had no trouble losing weight. Within months, they were back to normal and effortlessly stayed there. This is an excerpt from Gina Kolata’s new book, “Rethinking Thin: The New Science of Weight Loss — and the Myths and Realities of Dieting” (Farrar, Straus & Giroux). Correction: May 12, 2007 An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the role of genes in weight gain misstated the publication date for an article in the journal Science describing the biological controls over body weight. The article was published in 2003, not 2000. Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; Weight-Loss Drugs: Hoopla and Hype F.D.A. Approves an Over-the-Counter Version of the Weight-Loss Drug Xenical As Obesity Fight Hits Cafeteria, Many Fear a Note From School Next Article in Health (8 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NORTH POLE WAS HERE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NORTH POLE WAS HERE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html?ex=1336881600&en=7c25f6782d7029e7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html?ex=1336881600&en=7c25f6782d7029e7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html?ex=1336708800&en=fea24a30d4e2e175&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html?ex=1336708800&en=fea24a30d4e2e175&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Tuesday, May 15, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions Physicists hope a giant particle accelerator will recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / OTHER SPORTS An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius&#8217;s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Sign In to E-MAIL This Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Wine is now being made in nontraditional areas like Brazil&#8217;s desert, challenging centuries-old grape myths. Sign In to E-MAIL This BUSINESS / YOUR MONEY The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller The advance is usually the estimate of the first year&#39;s royalties. It&#39;s often wrong. Sign In to E-MAIL This Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog How the rock &#8216;n&#8217; roll life became a desk job. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Researchers are trying to understand the nature of the honeybee, including what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of workers that surround her. Sign In to E-MAIL This Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. Sign In to E-MAIL This Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey&#8217;s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. Sign In to E-MAIL This On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use A new Internet tool will help individuals and communities curb their role in global-warming carbon emissions. Sign In to E-MAIL This &#8216;Spring Awakening&#8217; Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, &#8220;Spring Awakening,&#8221; a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Sign In to E-MAIL This Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam&#8217;s Reach A political party with a past in Islamic politics has had a moderating effect on a city deeply attached to its faith. Sign In to E-MAIL This Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. Sign In to E-MAIL This Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Climatologists said in February it was &#8220;very unlikely&#8221; that the crucial flow of warm water to Europe known as the North Atlantic Current would stall in this century. Sign In to E-MAIL This After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care By JILL P. CAPUZZO After 1,111 pieces of potentially explosive military ordnance were removed, the beaches of Surf City, N.J., are set to reopen before Memorial Day. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: In Divided New Orleans We &#151; the federal, state and city governments; elected officials and the citizens who hire them &#151; have failed spectacularly to rebuild New Orleans. Sign In to E-MAIL This Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The Rev. Jerry Falwell built the religious right into a political force. Sign In to E-MAIL This Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Sign In to E-MAIL This Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? Nicolas Sarkozy may not be what the French call a &#8220;lib&eacute;ral,&#8221; but he&#8217;s no neocon, either. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial Observer: The New French President&#8217;s Roots Are Worth Remembering Reflections on a visit to the ancestral estate of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president-elect. Sign In to E-MAIL This Who Killed Kennedy? One Man&#8217;s Answer Vincent Bugliosi, the author of one of the best-selling true-crime books of all time, &#8220;Helter Skelter,&#8221; has turned his attention to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Sign In to E-MAIL This BOOKS / SUNDAY BOOK REVIEW Christopher Hitchens is an old-fashioned (and very entertaining) village atheist, trying to pick arguments with the good citizens on their way to church. $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Tuesday, May 15, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions Physicists hope a giant particle accelerator will recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / OTHER SPORTS An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius&#8217;s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Sign In to E-MAIL This Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Wine is now being made in nontraditional areas like Brazil&#8217;s desert, challenging centuries-old grape myths. Sign In to E-MAIL This BUSINESS / YOUR MONEY The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller The advance is usually the estimate of the first year&#39;s royalties. It&#39;s often wrong. Sign In to E-MAIL This Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog How the rock &#8216;n&#8217; roll life became a desk job. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Researchers are trying to understand the nature of the honeybee, including what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of workers that surround her. Sign In to E-MAIL This Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. Sign In to E-MAIL This Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey&#8217;s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. Sign In to E-MAIL This On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use A new Internet tool will help individuals and communities curb their role in global-warming carbon emissions. Sign In to E-MAIL This &#8216;Spring Awakening&#8217; Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, &#8220;Spring Awakening,&#8221; a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Sign In to E-MAIL This Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam&#8217;s Reach A political party with a past in Islamic politics has had a moderating effect on a city deeply attached to its faith. Sign In to E-MAIL This Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. Sign In to E-MAIL This Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Climatologists said in February it was &#8220;very unlikely&#8221; that the crucial flow of warm water to Europe known as the North Atlantic Current would stall in this century. Sign In to E-MAIL This After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care By JILL P. CAPUZZO After 1,111 pieces of potentially explosive military ordnance were removed, the beaches of Surf City, N.J., are set to reopen before Memorial Day. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: In Divided New Orleans We &#151; the federal, state and city governments; elected officials and the citizens who hire them &#151; have failed spectacularly to rebuild New Orleans. Sign In to E-MAIL This Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The Rev. Jerry Falwell built the religious right into a political force. Sign In to E-MAIL This Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Sign In to E-MAIL This Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? Nicolas Sarkozy may not be what the French call a &#8220;lib&eacute;ral,&#8221; but he&#8217;s no neocon, either. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial Observer: The New French President&#8217;s Roots Are Worth Remembering Reflections on a visit to the ancestral estate of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president-elect. Sign In to E-MAIL This Who Killed Kennedy? One Man&#8217;s Answer Vincent Bugliosi, the author of one of the best-selling true-crime books of all time, &#8220;Helter Skelter,&#8221; has turned his attention to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Sign In to E-MAIL This BOOKS / SUNDAY BOOK REVIEW Christopher Hitchens is an old-fashioned (and very entertaining) village atheist, trying to pick arguments with the good citizens on their way to church. $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Don Mattingly Signed Baseball N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Don Mattingly Signed Baseball N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html?ex=1336881600&en=6a8db6d32dac7f31&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html?ex=1336881600&en=6a8db6d32dac7f31&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html?ex=1336881600&en=02819790e5ed3533&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html?ex=1336881600&en=02819790e5ed3533&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html?ex=1336708800&en=5d5b4730dd74dc8d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html?ex=1336708800&en=5d5b4730dd74dc8d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html?ex=1336881600&en=d78bcb5a83f69271&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html?ex=1336881600&en=d78bcb5a83f69271&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France American Flamingo, Plate 431 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France American Flamingo, Plate 431 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html?ex=1336881600&en=7c25f6782d7029e7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html?ex=1336881600&en=7c25f6782d7029e7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html?ex=1336881600&en=cf11862437860347&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html?ex=1336881600&en=cf11862437860347&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Don’t have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Louisiana Heron, Plate 217 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Don’t have TimesSelect? What are you waiting for? Try it free for 14 days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Louisiana Heron, Plate 217 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html?ex=1336708800&en=fea24a30d4e2e175&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html?ex=1336708800&en=fea24a30d4e2e175&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/health/15book.html	Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession - New York Times Mental Health & Behavior Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Published: May 15, 2007 Like the racket of dozens of birds on a clothesline, the sound of doctors is filling the air. Skip to next paragraph Top, Erik Jacobs for The New York Times; above, C.J. Gunther for The New York Times; Dr. Jerome Groopman, above, and Dr. Atul Gawande, top, are both clinicians at Harvard and write for The New Yorker. Some of the books discussed in this article: JOHN E. CASTALDO AND LAWRENCE P. LEVITT "The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing" (Benbella Books, $20). "Better: A Surgeon's Notes on Performance" (Metropolitan, $24). "The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?" (Common Courage Press, $17.95). "How Doctors Think" (Houghton Mifflin, $26). "The Medical Detectives" (Plume, $16) and "The Man Who Grew Two Breasts" (Plume, $10.95). "M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School" (iUniverse Inc., $13.95). "Galileo's Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment" (Bellevue Literary Press, $25). The strongest voices at the moment belong to Dr. Jerome Groopman and Dr. Atul Gawande, both clinicians at Harvard and writers for The New Yorker, both with articulate new books garnering impressive reviews and climbing in parallel to best-sellerdom. But they are only two of many doctors holding forth these days, in escalating volume. The last six months alone have seen the publication of a half-dozen volumes of memoir and opinion by doctors at every stage of professional life, from newbie (“M.D.: A Four-Year Journey Through Medical School” by Shani Stein-Ratzker) to emeritus (“Galileo’s Gout: Science in an Age of Endarkenment” by Gerald Weissmann). Some books promise to educate and inspire (“The Man With the Iron Tattoo and Other True Tales of Uncommon Wisdom: What Our Patients Have Taught Us About Love, Faith and Healing,” by John E. Castaldo and Lawrence P. Levitt). Some books promise social critique instead (“The Corrosion of Medicine: Can the Profession Reclaim Its Moral Legacy?” by John Geyman, due out at the end of the month). Doctors are also filling up newspaper columns (like this one), blogging, submitting work to literary journals and signing up for courses designed to help them break into print. It all prompts the same questions as a sudden swooping, squawking murmuration of starlings: where are they all coming from? And what in the world are they trying to say? Some listeners hear a set of new variations on very old songs. “Doctors are storytellers,” said Kathryn Montgomery, a professor of literature who directs the medical humanities and bioethics program at ’s Feinberg School of Medicine in Chicago. “They spend all day long listening to stories and telling stories.” They tell stories, she went on, even when no one is around to listen — to clarify their own thoughts, to teach and to stimulate research. “It’s not surprising they write,” she said. Reflecting the literary tastes of our age, Ms. Montgomery suggested, the fiction and poetry of doctors like , William Somerset Maugham and William Carlos Williams, among others, are being replaced by memoirs. The current television schedule may also influence the speeding of modern doctors’ work into print. With every second actor now wearing scrubs and saving lives, publishers undoubtedly sense a public appetite for the words of real doctors who are ready to spill all. But any reader anticipating a good, light read is likely to be disappointed. On television, the frenetic energy of the hospital may spell entertainment, but on the page it has become food for the increasingly sober existential thought. A look back at The New Yorker’s articles about medicine during the last few decades reveals the darkening mood of medical writing. For decades, the magazine’s medical beat belonged to Berton Roueché, a journalist who stumbled in the late 1940s onto the great unmined literary lode of medical practice. With no medical background himself, Mr. Roueché (who died in 1994) carefully constructed his dozens of stories about medicine to give the doctors he interviewed the primary narrative voice. Mr. Roueché’s contributions to The New Yorker’s Annals of Medicine were as addictive and as predictable as any detective fiction: a patient developed mysterious symptoms (a man grew breasts, a woman lost all her strength), and an astute doctor figured out why (the man’s wife used an -containing cream; the woman had the paralytic condition myasthenia gravis, but an operation let her dance again). Dr. Groopman and Dr. Gawande have assumed the Roueché mantle, but their cautionary fables could not be more different from his neatly packaged stories of medical success. Dr. Groopman made his New Yorker debut 10 years ago with the story of a patient dying of , who came to him asking for “magic.” The patient had heard that Dr. Groopman was “a medical genius, a wizard,” and liked to address him as “St. Jerome.” On television, this character might have gotten his magic. In reality, Dr. Groopman struggled to get him a few months of remission, only to find the man more miserable in health than he ever was in his fight against disease. Dr. Groopman has made it clear, in his writings since then, that medicine has no magic, wizards or geniuses, and very few saints. Instead, there is only uncertainty in an endless spectrum of grays, with doctors whose skills promote an illusion of magic and others who stumble. In his latest book, “How Doctors Think,” Dr. Groopman looks at when the sleight-of-hand goes wrong. Why should an emergency room doctor misdiagnose a heart attack, or a pediatrician fail to recognize a malnourished infant, or a highly pedigreed surgeon mistake the problem crippling Dr. Groopman’s right wrist? The flawed thinking is broken down, step by step, like the diagrams in a manual of how to palm cards. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Health (1 of 8) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years THE NEW YORK TIMES CHICKEN COOKBOOK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Tuesday, May 15, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions Physicists hope a giant particle accelerator will recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / OTHER SPORTS An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius&#8217;s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Sign In to E-MAIL This Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Wine is now being made in nontraditional areas like Brazil&#8217;s desert, challenging centuries-old grape myths. Sign In to E-MAIL This BUSINESS / YOUR MONEY The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller The advance is usually the estimate of the first year&#39;s royalties. It&#39;s often wrong. Sign In to E-MAIL This Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog How the rock &#8216;n&#8217; roll life became a desk job. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Researchers are trying to understand the nature of the honeybee, including what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of workers that surround her. Sign In to E-MAIL This Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. Sign In to E-MAIL This Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey&#8217;s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. Sign In to E-MAIL This On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use A new Internet tool will help individuals and communities curb their role in global-warming carbon emissions. Sign In to E-MAIL This &#8216;Spring Awakening&#8217; Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, &#8220;Spring Awakening,&#8221; a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Sign In to E-MAIL This Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam&#8217;s Reach A political party with a past in Islamic politics has had a moderating effect on a city deeply attached to its faith. Sign In to E-MAIL This Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. Sign In to E-MAIL This Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Climatologists said in February it was &#8220;very unlikely&#8221; that the crucial flow of warm water to Europe known as the North Atlantic Current would stall in this century. Sign In to E-MAIL This After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care By JILL P. CAPUZZO After 1,111 pieces of potentially explosive military ordnance were removed, the beaches of Surf City, N.J., are set to reopen before Memorial Day. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: In Divided New Orleans We &#151; the federal, state and city governments; elected officials and the citizens who hire them &#151; have failed spectacularly to rebuild New Orleans. Sign In to E-MAIL This Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The Rev. Jerry Falwell built the religious right into a political force. Sign In to E-MAIL This Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Sign In to E-MAIL This Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? Nicolas Sarkozy may not be what the French call a &#8220;lib&eacute;ral,&#8221; but he&#8217;s no neocon, either. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial Observer: The New French President&#8217;s Roots Are Worth Remembering Reflections on a visit to the ancestral estate of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president-elect. Sign In to E-MAIL This Who Killed Kennedy? One Man&#8217;s Answer Vincent Bugliosi, the author of one of the best-selling true-crime books of all time, &#8220;Helter Skelter,&#8221; has turned his attention to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Sign In to E-MAIL This BOOKS / SUNDAY BOOK REVIEW Christopher Hitchens is an old-fashioned (and very entertaining) village atheist, trying to pick arguments with the good citizens on their way to church. $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Tuesday, May 15, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions Physicists hope a giant particle accelerator will recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / OTHER SPORTS An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius&#8217;s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Sign In to E-MAIL This Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Wine is now being made in nontraditional areas like Brazil&#8217;s desert, challenging centuries-old grape myths. Sign In to E-MAIL This BUSINESS / YOUR MONEY The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller The advance is usually the estimate of the first year&#39;s royalties. It&#39;s often wrong. Sign In to E-MAIL This Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog How the rock &#8216;n&#8217; roll life became a desk job. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Researchers are trying to understand the nature of the honeybee, including what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of workers that surround her. Sign In to E-MAIL This Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. Sign In to E-MAIL This Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey&#8217;s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. Sign In to E-MAIL This On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use A new Internet tool will help individuals and communities curb their role in global-warming carbon emissions. Sign In to E-MAIL This &#8216;Spring Awakening&#8217; Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, &#8220;Spring Awakening,&#8221; a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Sign In to E-MAIL This Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam&#8217;s Reach A political party with a past in Islamic politics has had a moderating effect on a city deeply attached to its faith. Sign In to E-MAIL This Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. Sign In to E-MAIL This Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Climatologists said in February it was &#8220;very unlikely&#8221; that the crucial flow of warm water to Europe known as the North Atlantic Current would stall in this century. Sign In to E-MAIL This After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care By JILL P. CAPUZZO After 1,111 pieces of potentially explosive military ordnance were removed, the beaches of Surf City, N.J., are set to reopen before Memorial Day. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: In Divided New Orleans We &#151; the federal, state and city governments; elected officials and the citizens who hire them &#151; have failed spectacularly to rebuild New Orleans. Sign In to E-MAIL This Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The Rev. Jerry Falwell built the religious right into a political force. Sign In to E-MAIL This Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Sign In to E-MAIL This Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? Nicolas Sarkozy may not be what the French call a &#8220;lib&eacute;ral,&#8221; but he&#8217;s no neocon, either. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial Observer: The New French President&#8217;s Roots Are Worth Remembering Reflections on a visit to the ancestral estate of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president-elect. Sign In to E-MAIL This Who Killed Kennedy? One Man&#8217;s Answer Vincent Bugliosi, the author of one of the best-selling true-crime books of all time, &#8220;Helter Skelter,&#8221; has turned his attention to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Sign In to E-MAIL This BOOKS / SUNDAY BOOK REVIEW Christopher Hitchens is an old-fashioned (and very entertaining) village atheist, trying to pick arguments with the good citizens on their way to church. $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Cleaning the Elephants, 1951 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Cleaning the Elephants, 1951 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html?ex=1336881600&en=d78bcb5a83f69271&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html?ex=1336881600&en=d78bcb5a83f69271&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html?ex=1336881600&en=a526b1706f63d1d6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/sports/othersports/15runner.html?ex=1336881600&en=a526b1706f63d1d6&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? - New York Times An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? &#147;I don&#146;t see myself as disabled,&#148; said Oscar Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player. &#147;There&#146;s nothing I can&#146;t do that able-bodied athletes can do.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 MANCHESTER, England, May 14 — As Oscar Pistorius of South Africa crouched in the starting blocks for the 200 meters on Sunday, the small crowd turned its attention to the sprinter who calls himself the fastest man on no legs. Skip to next paragraph Do you think athletes with prosthetics should be allowed to compete with able-bodied athletes? Video: Oscar Pistorius's Victory in the T44 Men's 200 Meters Christopher Furlong/Getty Images, for The New York Times Pistorius, left, won the 200-meter race at the Paralympic World Cup. He wants to compete in the 2008 Olympics. Pistorius wants to be the first amputee runner to compete in the Olympics. But despite his ascendance, he is facing resistance from track and field’s world governing body, which is seeking to bar him on the grounds that the technology of his prosthetics may give him an unfair advantage over sprinters using their natural legs. His first strides were choppy Sunday, a necessary accommodation to sprinting on a pair of j-shaped blades made of carbon fiber and known as Cheetahs. Pistorius was born without the fibula in his lower legs and with other defects in his feet. He had both legs amputated below the knee when he was 11 months old. At 20, his coach says, he is like a five-speed engine with no second gear. Yet Pistorius is also a searing talent who has begun erasing the lines between abled and disabled, raising philosophical questions: What should an athlete look like? Where should limits be placed on technology to balance fair play with the right to compete? Would the nature of sport be altered if athletes using artificial limbs could run faster or jump higher than the best athletes using their natural limbs? Once at full speed Sunday, Pistorius handily won the 100 and 200 meters here at the Paralympic World Cup, an international competition for disabled athletes. A cold, rainy afternoon tempered his performances, but his victories came decisively and kept him aimed toward his goal of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, even though international track officials seek to block his entrance. Since March, Pistorius has delivered startling record performances for disabled athletes at 100 meters (10.91 seconds), 200 meters (21.58 seconds) and 400 meters (46.34 seconds). Those times do not meet Olympic qualifying standards for men, but the Beijing Games are still 15 months away. Already, Pistorius is fast enough that his marks would have won gold medals in equivalent women’s races at the 2004 Athens Olympics. Pistorius’s time of 46.56 in the 400 earned him a second-place finish in March against able-bodied runners at the South African national championships. This seemingly makes him a candidate for the Olympic 4x400-meter relay should South Africa qualify as one of the world’s 16 fastest teams. “I don’t see myself as disabled,” said the blond, spiky-haired Pistorius, a former rugby and water polo player who declines to park in spaces reserved for the disabled. “There’s nothing I can’t do that able-bodied athletes can do.” An Equalizer or an Edge? Still, the question persists: Do prosthetic legs simply level the playing field for Pistorius, compensating for his disability, or do they give him an inequitable edge via what some call techno-doping? Experts say there have been limited scientific studies on the biomechanics of amputee runners, especially those missing both legs. And because Pistorius lost his legs as an infant, his speed on carbon-fiber legs cannot be compared with his speed on natural legs. Track and field’s world governing body, based in Monaco and known by the initials I.A.A.F., has recently prohibited the use of technological aids like springs and wheels, disqualifying Pistorius from events that it sanctions. A final ruling is expected in August. allows governing bodies to make their own eligibility rules, though it can intervene. Since 2004, for example, transgender athletes have been allowed to compete in the Olympics. “With all due respect, we cannot accept something that provides advantages,” said Elio Locatelli of Italy, the director of development for the I.A.A.F., urging Pistorius to concentrate on the Paralympics that will follow the Olympics in Beijing. “It affects the purity of sport. Next will be another device where people can fly with something on their back.” Others have questioned the governing body’s motivation. Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Where Beating the Odds Is Nothing New TRACK AND FIELD; It's All in the Timing SIDELINES: A PERSONAL VICTORY; Although Disabled He's Not Unable Student Wins the Right To Race in Wheelchair Next Article in Sports (3 of 27) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html?ex=1336881600&en=02819790e5ed3533&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html?ex=1336881600&en=02819790e5ed3533&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Fifth Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Fifth Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html?ex=1336708800&en=5d5b4730dd74dc8d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html?ex=1336708800&en=5d5b4730dd74dc8d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html?ex=1336881600&en=6a8db6d32dac7f31&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html?ex=1336881600&en=6a8db6d32dac7f31&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains - New York Times Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for The New York Times A goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for The New York Times Adolphus A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. More Articles in National &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Mississippi Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis More Articles in National &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Roberto Clemente at Shea Stadium, 1967 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 &#151; On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. &#8220;I was very upset,&#8221; said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. &#8220;I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.&#8221; The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey&#8217;s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room &#151; in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales&#8217;s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the &#8217;s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again &#8220;as to its legality.&#8221; On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband&#8217;s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. &#8220;I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don&#8217;t know that for sure,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: &#8220;He said, &#8216;I&#8217;ll meet you at the hospital right now,&#8217; &#8221; Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, &#8220;I got out of the car and ran up &#151; literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.&#8221; &#8220;What was your concern?&#8221; asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today&#8217;s committee session. &#8220;I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey&#8217;s security detail by phone &#8220;not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. &#8220;And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,&#8221; Mr. Comey related. &#8220;And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,&#8221; Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, &#8220;he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and &#8220;demanded that I come to the White House immediately,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. &#8220;After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,&#8221; Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. &#8220;Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,&#8221; Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. &#8220;You had conversations with him about it?&#8221; Mr. Schumer asked. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice &#8220;attesting to its legality,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid on March 11, prompting him to put his plans on hold; he remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey&#8217;s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel&#8217;s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. &#8220;He&#8217;s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,&#8221; Mr. Schumer said. &#8220;It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,&#8221; Mr Specter said. &#8220;And beyond Mr. Gonzales&#8217; decision, it&#8217;s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France East Harlem Swimming Pool, 2004 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html?ex=1336881600&en=7c25f6782d7029e7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France The Times/Ellis Island Legacy Keepsake N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/business/yourmoney/13book.html?ex=1336708800&en=fea24a30d4e2e175&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller - New York Times The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Mike Mergen for The New York Times Curtis Sittenfeld&#146;s first novel, &#147;Prep,&#148; surprised publishers by selling 133,000 copies in hardcover. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 WHEN Shana Kelly, a literary agent at the William Morris Agency, submitted Curtis Sittenfeld’s first novel, “Cipher,” to book publishers in 2003, she had high expectations. She contacted nearly two dozen high-ranking editors at major publishers, expecting every one to make offers for her client’s coming-of-age story set at a boarding school. Skip to next paragraph This week: The shake-up at JetBlue, and Rupert Murdoch's corporate kingdom. This Week’s Podcast ( Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Eric Simonoff, a literary agent, says the unpredictability of the book industry shocks people in other fields. Within weeks, though, most editors had passed. “They loved it but weren’t sure they could sell a lot of copies, because they couldn’t figure out how to market it,” Ms. Kelly said. In the end, Random House was the only publisher to make an offer, giving Ms. Sittenfeld a $40,000 advance. Random House published “Cipher” in January 2005, renaming it “Prep” and backing it with a clever marketing and publicity campaign. But the initial print run was just 13,000 copies — not enough to generate added royalties on the $40,000 advance. “Prep” proceeded to confound all expectations by making the New York Times best-seller list a month after publication. The hardcover, with a cover price of $21.95, eventually sold more than 133,000 copies, according to Nielsen BookScan, which captures about 70 percent of sales. The paperback also became a best seller, selling 329,000 copies to date. Foreign rights have been sold for publication in 25 languages, and Paramount has optioned the movie rights. The book was buoyed by favorable press and word of mouth. But other books receive similar attention and go nowhere, so why was “Prep” so successful? Conversely, what causes a book that was all the rage at auction time to fall flat at bookstores? Brian DeFiore, a literary agent, asks: “Is it the cover? The title? The buzz wasn’t there? Timing? It wasn’t that good?” The answer is that no one really knows. “It’s an accidental profession, most of the time,” said William Strachan, editor in chief at Carroll & Graf Publishers. “If you had the key, you’d be very wealthy. Nobody has the key.” The hunt for the key has been much more extensive in other industries, which have made a point of using new technology to gain a better understanding of their customers. Television stations have created online forums for viewers and may use the information there to make programming decisions. Game developers solicit input from users through virtual communities over the Internet. Airlines and hotels have developed increasingly sophisticated databases of customers. Publishers, by contrast, put up Web sites where, in some cases, readers can sign up for announcements of new titles. But information rarely flows the other way — from readers back to the editors. “We need much more of a direct relationship with our readers,” said Susan Rabiner, an agent and a former editorial director. Bloggers have a much more interactive relationship with their readers than publishers do, she said. “Before , we didn’t even know what people thought of the books,” she said. Most in the industry seem to see consumer taste as a mystery that is inevitable and even appealing, akin to the uncontrollable highs and lows of falling in love or gambling. Publishing employees tend to be liberal arts graduates who enter the field with a starting salary around $30,000. Compensation is not tied to sales performance. “The people who go into it don’t do it for the money, which might explain why it’s such a bad business,” Mr. Strachan said. Eric Simonoff, a literary agent at Janklow & Nesbit Associates, said that whenever he discusses the book industry with people in other industries, “they’re stunned because it’s so unpredictable, because the profit margins are so small, the cycles are so incredibly long, and because of the almost total lack of market research.” Publishers do engage in limited numbers crunching. In estimating value, editors rely heavily on an author’s previous sales or on sales of similar titles. Based on those figures and some analysis — about the popularity of the genre, the likely audience, the possible newsworthiness of the topic of the economy — they work up profit and loss projections. The advance payment to the author is often an estimate of the first year’s royalties, usually 10 percent to 15 percent of expected sales. The advance is a liability for the publisher because it is a fixed cost. It doesn’t have to be repaid by the author if it turns out to be an overestimate, which it usually is. But when earned royalties exceed the advance amount, the author is paid more. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE FUNNY PAGES | SUNDAY SERIAL; &#8216;Doors Open&#8217; Writing in the Dark Lesley Blanch, 102, a Writer and Traveler, Dies More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/washington/15cnd-attorneys.html?ex=1336881600&en=246b34c8906ddfc4&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says - New York Times Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Stephen Crowley/The New York Times Former Deputy Attorney General James Comey testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing today. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 15 &#151; On the night of March 10, 2004, a high-ranking Justice Department official rushed to a Washington hospital to prevent two White House aides from taking advantage of the critically ill Attorney General, , the official testified today. One of those aides was , who was then White House counsel and eventually succeeded Mr. Ashcroft as Attorney General. &#8220;I was very upset,&#8221; said , who was deputy Attorney General at the time, in his testimony today before the Senate Judiciary Committee. &#8220;I was angry. I thought I had just witnessed an effort to take advantage of a very sick man, who did not have the powers of the attorney general because they had been transferred to me.&#8221; The hospital visit by Mr. Gonzales and Andrew H. Card Jr. , who was then White House chief of staff, has been disclosed before, but never in such dramatic, personal detail. Mr. Comey&#8217;s account offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle, complete with a late-night showdown in the White House after a dramatic encounter in a darkened hospital room &#151; in short, elements of a potboiler paperback novel. Mr. Comey related his story to the committee, which is investigating various aspects of Mr. Gonzales&#8217;s tenure as Attorney General, including the recent dismissals of eight and allegations that applicants for traditionally nonpartisan career prosecutor jobs were screened for political loyalties. Although Mr. Comey declined to say specifically what the business was that sent Mr. Gonzales to the bedside of Mr. Ashcroft in George Washington Hospital, where he lay critically ill with pancreatitis, it was clear that the subject was the &#8217;s secret domestic surveillance program. The signature of Mr. Ashcroft or his surrogate was needed by the next day, March 11, in order to renew the program, which was still secret at that time. Since the existence of the program was disclosed by The New York Times in late 2005, it has been reported that it was the subject of a tense debate at the highest levels of the Bush administration, with some officials concerned that the program was not adequately supervised, and others having more fundamental worries. Around the time of the hospital incident, the White House suspended parts of the program for several months and imposed tougher requirements on the National Security Agency on how the program was to be used.Mr. Comey told the committee today that when Mr. Ashcroft was ill and he was in charge at the Justice Department, he told the White House he would not certify the program again &#8220;as to its legality.&#8221; On the night of March 10, as he was being driven home by his security detail, he got a telephone call from Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s chief of staff, who had just been contacted by Mr. Ashcroft&#8217;s wife, Janet. Although Mrs. Ashcroft had banned visitors and telephone calls to her husband&#8217;s hospital room, she had just gotten a call from the White House telling her that Mr. Card and Mr. Gonzales were on their way to see her husband, Mr. Comey testified. &#8220;I have some recollection that the call was from the president himself, but I don&#8217;t know that for sure,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. He said his security detail then sped him to the hospital with sirens blaring and emergency lights flashing, while he telephoned the director of the , Robert S. Mueller 3d, from the car. Mr. Mueller shared his sense of urgency: &#8220;He said, &#8216;I&#8217;ll meet you at the hospital right now,&#8217; &#8221; Mr. Comey testified. When he got to the hospital, Mr. Comey recalled, &#8220;I got out of the car and ran up &#151; literally, ran up the stairs with my security detail.&#8221; &#8220;What was your concern?&#8221; asked Senator , Democrat of New York, who was the chairman of today&#8217;s committee session. &#8220;I was concerned that, given how ill I knew the attorney general was, that there might be an effort to ask him to overrule me when he was in no condition to do that,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied. Mr. Comey recalled arriving at the darkened hospital room, where Mr. Ashcroft seemed hardly aware of his surroundings. For a time, only Mr. Comey and the Ashcrofts were in the room. Meanwhile, Mr. Mueller, who had not yet arrived, told Mr. Comey&#8217;s security detail by phone &#8220;not to allow me to be removed from the room under any circumstances,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Minutes later, he said, Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card entered the room, with Mr. Gonzales carrying an envelope. &#8220;And then Mr. Gonzales began to discuss why they were there, to seek his approval for a matter,&#8221; Mr. Comey related. &#8220;And Attorney General Ashcroft then stunned me,&#8221; Mr. Comey went on: He raised his head from the pillow, reiterated his objections to the program, then lay back down, pointing to Mr. Comey as the attorney general during his illness. When Mr. Mueller arrived, &#8220;he had a brief, a memorable brief exchange with the attorney general, and then we went outside in the hallway,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. Mr. Gonzales and Mr. Card departed, but after a while, Mr. Card telephoned Mr. Comey and &#8220;demanded that I come to the White House immediately,&#8221; Mr. Comey said. &#8220;After what I just witnessed, I will not meet with you without a witness, and I intend that witness to be the solicitor general of the United States,&#8221; Mr. Comey said he told Mr. Card. Whereupon, Mr. Comey said, he contacted the solicitor general, , who was at a dinner party, and arranged to go with him to the White House. At first, Mr. Card would not let Mr. Olson enter his office, Mr. Comey said; he then had a considerably calmer private chat with Mr. Card for a quarter-hour, after which Mr. Olson entered the room and took part in the conversation. &#8220;Mr. Card was concerned that he had heard reports that there were to be a large number of resignations at the Department of Justice,&#8221; Mr. Comey recalled. Mr. Ashcroft had such serious reservations about the program that he considered resigning then, Mr. Comey testified. Instead, he stayed on until November 2004. Mr. Mueller, too, considered resigning, Mr. Comey said. &#8220;You had conversations with him about it?&#8221; Mr. Schumer asked. &#8220;Yes,&#8221; Mr. Comey replied.The surveillance program was reauthorized on March 11, 2004, without a signature from the Department of Justice &#8220;attesting to its legality,&#8221; Mr. Comey testified. Mr. Comey said today that he intended to resign the next day, March 12. But terrorists carried out deadly train bombings in Madrid on March 11, prompting him to put his plans on hold; he remained on the job until August 2005. Even before Mr. Comey&#8217;s testimony, Mr. Schumer and Senator of Pennsylvania, the panel&#8217;s ranking Republican, reiterated their low opinion of Mr. Gonzales as attorney general. &#8220;He&#8217;s presided over a Justice Department where being a, quote, loyal Bushie seems to be more important than being a seasoned professional, where what the White House wants is more important than what the law requires or what prudence dictates,&#8221; Mr. Schumer said. &#8220;It is the decision of Mr. Gonzales as to whether he stays or goes, but it is hard to see how the Department of Justice can function and perform its important duties with Mr. Gonzales remaining where he is,&#8221; Mr Specter said. &#8220;And beyond Mr. Gonzales&#8217; decision, it&#8217;s a matter for the president as to whether the president will retain the attorney general or not.&#8221; More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Washington &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/gst/mostemailed.html?partner=rssnyt	Most E-Mailed New York Times Articles in the Past 24 Hours - The New York Times Tuesday, May 15, 2007 SIGN IN TO E-MAIL THIS Updated Every Fifteen Minutes Articles most frequently e-mailed by NYTimes.com readers. Sign In to E-MAIL This A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions Physicists hope a giant particle accelerator will recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Sign In to E-MAIL This SPORTS / OTHER SPORTS An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Some are questioning whether Oscar Pistorius&#8217;s prosthetic legs give him an unfair advantage over other sprinters. Sign In to E-MAIL This Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Wine is now being made in nontraditional areas like Brazil&#8217;s desert, challenging centuries-old grape myths. Sign In to E-MAIL This Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Some doctors turned writers want to dispel the notion of medical magic, some offer social critique and some should keep their day jobs. Sign In to E-MAIL This BUSINESS / YOUR MONEY The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller The advance is usually the estimate of the first year&#39;s royalties. It&#39;s often wrong. Sign In to E-MAIL This Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says James B. Comey&#8217;s account before the Senate Judiciary Committee offered a rare and titillating glimpse of a Washington power struggle. Sign In to E-MAIL This Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait An economics professor suggests that retirees should delay collecting Social Security benefits to maximize their returns. Sign In to E-MAIL This Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog How the rock &#8216;n&#8217; roll life became a desk job. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Briarcliff Middle School has emerged as a nationally recognized middle school that gets things right. Sign In to E-MAIL This Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Researchers are trying to understand the nature of the honeybee, including what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of workers that surround her. Sign In to E-MAIL This Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. Sign In to E-MAIL This On the Web, an Advanced Carbon Calculator for Personal Use A new Internet tool will help individuals and communities curb their role in global-warming carbon emissions. Sign In to E-MAIL This &#8216;Spring Awakening&#8217; Gets 11 Tony Nominations In a season rich with contenders, &#8220;Spring Awakening,&#8221; a dark rock musical, led the field of Tony nominations. Sign In to E-MAIL This Turkish City Counters Fear of Islam&#8217;s Reach A political party with a past in Islamic politics has had a moderating effect on a city deeply attached to its faith. Sign In to E-MAIL This Scientists Back Off Theory of a Colder Europe in a Warming World Climatologists said in February it was &#8220;very unlikely&#8221; that the crucial flow of warm water to Europe known as the North Atlantic Current would stall in this century. Sign In to E-MAIL This Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Sign In to E-MAIL This After Ordnance Scare, Beachgoers Told to Dig With Care By JILL P. CAPUZZO After 1,111 pieces of potentially explosive military ordnance were removed, the beaches of Surf City, N.J., are set to reopen before Memorial Day. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial: In Divided New Orleans We &#151; the federal, state and city governments; elected officials and the citizens who hire them &#151; have failed spectacularly to rebuild New Orleans. Sign In to E-MAIL This Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. Sign In to E-MAIL This Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The Rev. Jerry Falwell built the religious right into a political force. Sign In to E-MAIL This Op-Ed Contributor: Friend or Faux? Nicolas Sarkozy may not be what the French call a &#8220;lib&eacute;ral,&#8221; but he&#8217;s no neocon, either. Sign In to E-MAIL This Editorial Observer: The New French President&#8217;s Roots Are Worth Remembering Reflections on a visit to the ancestral estate of Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president-elect. Sign In to E-MAIL This Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Sign In to E-MAIL This HEALTH / FITNESS & NUTRITION Vital Signs: Nutrition: A Cardiovascular Argument for Eating Whole Grains A new study adds strength to the argument that a better diet can lead directly to better health. Sign In to E-MAIL This The Consumer: As Demand for Donor Eggs Soars, High Prices Stir Ethical Concerns By RONI CARYN RABIN Many egg donors derive great satisfaction from knowing that they helped someone start a family, but sizable payments are raising controversy. $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15cern.html	CERN - Large Hadron Collider - Particle Physics - A Giant Takes On Physics' Biggest Questions - New York Times A Giant Takes On Physics’ Biggest Questions Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times At Cern, the Large Hadron Collider could recreate conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Above is one of the collider's massive particle detectors, called the Compact Muon Solenoid. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 300 FEET BELOW MEYRIN, Switzerland — The first thing that gets you is the noise. Skip to next paragraph Cameras for Capturing Primordial Fire The Large Hadron Collider A Bang, a Cloud, a Delay Valerio Mezzanotti for The New York Times John Ellis, a Cern physicist. &#34;If you take astrophysics seriously, there has to be some unseen stuff out there,&#34; he said. Physics, after all, is supposed to be a cerebral pursuit. But this cavern almost measureless to the eye, stuffed as it is with an Eiffel Tower’s worth of metal, eight-story wheels of gold fan-shape boxes, thousands of miles of wire and fat ductlike coils, echoes with the shriek of power tools, the whine of pumps and cranes, beeps and clanks from wrenches, hammers, screwdrivers and the occasional falling bolt. It seems no place for the studious. The physicists, wearing hardhats, kneepads and safety harnesses, are scrambling like Spiderman over this assembly, appropriately named Atlas, ducking under waterfalls of cables and tubes and crawling into hidden room-size cavities stuffed with electronics. They are getting ready to see the universe born again. Again and again and again — 30 million times a second, in fact. Starting sometime next summer if all goes to plan, subatomic particles will begin shooting around a 17-mile underground ring stretching from the European Center for Nuclear Research, or Cern, near Geneva, into France and back again — luckily without having to submit to customs inspections. Crashing together in the bowels of Atlas and similar contraptions spaced around the ring, the particles will produce tiny fireballs of primordial energy, recreating conditions that last prevailed when the universe was less than a trillionth of a second old. Whatever forms of matter and whatever laws and forces held sway Back Then — relics not seen in this part of space since the universe cooled 14 billion years ago — will spring fleetingly to life, over and over again in all their possible variations, as if the universe were enacting its own version of the “Groundhog Day” movie. If all goes well, they will leave their footprints in mountains of hardware and computer memory. “We are now on the endgame,” said Lyn Evans, of Cern, who has been in charge of the Large Hadron Collider, as it is called, since its inception. Call it the Hubble Telescope of Inner Space. Everything about the collider sounds, well, large — from the 14 trillion electron volts of energy with which it will smash together protons, its cast of thousands and the $8 billion it cost to build, to the 128 tons of liquid helium needed to cool the superconducting magnets that keep the particles whizzing around their track and the three million DVDs worth of data it will spew forth every year. The day it turns on will be a moment of truth for Cern, which has spent 13 years building the collider, and for the world’s physicists, who have staked their credibility and their careers, not to mention all those billions of dollars, on the conviction that they are within touching distance of fundamental discoveries about the universe. If they fail to see something new, experts agree, it could be a long time, if ever, before giant particle accelerators are built on again, ringing down the curtain on at least one aspect of the age-old quest to understand what the world is made of and how it works. “If you see nothing,” said a Cern physicist, John Ellis, “in some sense then, we theorists have been talking rubbish for the last 35 years.” Fabiola Gianotti, a Cern physicist and the deputy spokeswoman for the team that built the Atlas, said, “Something must happen.” The accelerator, Dr. Gianotti explained, would take physics into a realm of energy and time where the current reigning theories simply do not apply, corresponding to an era when cosmologists think that the universe was still differentiating itself, evolving from a primordial blandness and endless potential into the forces and particles that constitute modern reality. She listed possible discoveries like a mysterious particle called the Higgs that is thought to endow other particles with mass, new forms of matter that explain the mysterious dark matter waddling the cosmos and even new dimensions of spacetime. “For me,” Dr. Gianotti said, “it would be a dream if, finally, in a couple of years in a laboratory we are going to produce the particle responsible for 25 percent of the universe.” Halfway around the ring stood her rival of sorts, Jim Virdee from Imperial College London, wearing a hardhat at the bottom of another huge cavern. Dr. Virdee is the spokesman, which is physics-speak for leader, of another team, some 2,500 strong, with another giant detector, the poetically named Compact Muon Detector, which was looming over his shoulder like a giant cannon. Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Like Particles, 2 Houses of Physics Collide Physicists' Antimatter Recipe Is More Sci- Than Fi COLLABORATION; Machine-Made Links Change the Way Minds Can Work Together Physicists Strive to Build A Black Hole Laboratories and Scientific Equipment Next Article in Science (1 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France ARE MEN NECESSARY? Paperback Edition N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/education/12middle.html?ex=1336622400&en=ad0bdfef7cdb5510&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence - New York Times Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Ruby Washington/The New York Times A Briarcliff Manor Middle School sign reminds students that &#147;taking responsible risks&#148; is one of the Habits of Mind that the school wants them to adopt. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 BRIARCLIFF MANOR, N.Y. — At Briarcliff Middle School, almost any minute of any day can become a lesson in weathering the turmoil of adolescence. Skip to next paragraph This is the last article in a series of four that looked at changing theories of how middle school should be taught. View the complete series at A Model Middle School Take the large blue and white sign outside the cafeteria urging students to control their impulses. It didn’t stop Daniel Levine, a sixth grader, from slapping a Groucho Marx moustache on his upper lip and strutting around. But he did hesitate and think about it. “I just wanted people to laugh,” said Daniel, an energetic 11-year-old. “I fool around, but I know you have to stop sometimes, and I’m still trying to learn that.” Across New York State and the nation, educators are struggling with performance slumps in middle schools and debating how best to teach students at a transitional, volatile age. Just this week New York City put in place a new budget formula that directs extra money to middle schools. Briarcliff has emerged as a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right, a place that goes beyond textbooks to focus on social and emotional development. There is no question that the Briarcliff school starts out with many advantages. It is part of a district in Westchester County that spends $24,738 per student, or more than one and a half times the New York State average, and can afford to buy extra sets of classroom textbooks so that students can leave their own copies at home. Its student body is relatively homogenous — 91.8 percent are white — and so well off that less than 1 percent qualify for free or reduced lunches. In contrast, in nearby New York City, 72 percent of the population qualifies. But even affluent districts generally see a drop in student achievement in grades six through eight. Briarcliff has not; it is at the upper end of about 50 middle schools — out of more than 600 — in New York State where test scores have held steady and in some cases even increased slightly from the elementary level, according to state education data. The 390 students here have consistently outperformed their peers on state tests. Last year the number of students passing state reading and math tests at each grade level ranged from 89 percent to 97 percent. “We’d like high-performing middle grades schools to be the norm in our country, but right now they are more the exception,” said Deborah Kasak, executive director of the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform, an Illinois-based group. Briarcliff school officials have made a conscious decision to cultivate the middle school, instead of looking for ways to make middle schools disappear, as other districts have done by stretching elementary schools to cover eighth grade. In 2003, it was the middle school that moved into a new $24 million red-brick-and-glass building with panoramic views of the countryside while the high school took over its old space next door. The middle school also hires only teachers who express a clear interest in working with sixth, seventh and eighth graders, and trains them to reach the age group better. The school takes particular pride in its focus on how adolescents think and develop. Susan Howard, the Briarcliff principal, emphasized during a recent orientation for fifth-grade parents that a good middle school had to recognize and respond to the stages of adolescence as well as to fulfill their students’ intellectual promise. “If you think about a recipe, if you leave out a key ingredient, you’re not going to get the same outcome,” she said. So the school strives to develop critical thinking, teach organizational skills, and instill social and moral values. This is most visible in its adherence to Habits of Mind, a system developed by two educators, Arthur L. Costa and Bena Kallick, and now used in about 300 schools worldwide. Since 2004, Briarcliff Middle School has exhorted students to live by the 16 traits that are at the core of Habits of Mind, traits that its supporters contend are common to highly successful people. From “thinking flexibly” and “taking responsible risks” to “managing impulsivity,” these traits are posted on signs around the school and serve as a constant reminder of how students are expected to behave. Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes SCHOOL FINANCING; Increased State Aid or Not, Districts Seek Higher Taxes High Anxiety Of Getting Into College DECISIONS IN ALBANY; SCHOOL AID FIGHT ERUPTS IN ALBANY AS BUDGET PASSES Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (2 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/business/15wine.html?ex=1336881600&en=02819790e5ed3533&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country - New York Times Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A vineyard at the Vinibrasil winery in Brazil&#146;s semi-arid desert. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 RIO de JANEIRO, May 14 — When the Portuguese winemaker João Santos first viewed his company’s new vineyard in , he was crestfallen. How could he ever produce wine anywhere nearly as good as that made in Europe? The trouble was the palm trees. Skip to next paragraph Lalo de Almeida for The New York Times A Vinibrasil winery in Petrolina, Brazil. The company, a subsidiary of D&#227;o Sul, has managed through technology to grow grapes and produce wine in a climate that is so hot it is home to palm trees. “Wine and coconuts,” Mr. Santos, director of the Dão Sul vineyard, said with a chuckle in a phone interview from Fazenda Planaltino in northeastern Brazil. “One is completely different from the other. Palm trees you find by beaches. Wine comes from France, Italy, Spain, where they don’t have palm trees. Making wine here didn’t seem to make sense.” Today, four years after Dão Sul purchased land with some grape vines in Brazil’s semi-arid desert just south of the Equator, it all makes perfect sense. Thanks to hard work, better technology and hundreds of miles of irrigation pipes snaking in from the nearby São Francisco River, Dão Sul has overcome the coconut conundrum and produced one of the most successful tropical wines yet. In doing so it has given a new push to the growing cluster of “new latitude” wines, those produced outside the traditional geographical heartlands of wine country. Today, producers like Dão Sul, along with beverage industry players like LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton , Pernod Ricard and Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin, are investing in developing countries, where a growing middle class is creating more wine lovers. In doing so, these companies are challenging the centuries-old dogma that viticulture is about terroir, the belief that a wine reflects the area where its grapes were produced, and temperate climes. “For years we have drawn two bands around the globe, roughly between latitudes 30 and 50, to denote those parts of it deemed suitable for viticulture,” Jancis Robinson, a well-known British wine expert, wrote of the new phenomenon on her Web site. “But all this is changing fast. Advances in refrigeration and irrigation techniques, not to mention much greater control over how and when vines grow, have opened up to the grapevine vast tracts of the world previously thought unsuitable for viticulture.” Good grapes thrive in heat and sunlight, which are abundant in Brazil’s northeast. Normally such tropical climes are also wet, but the water for Dão Sul’s vines comes from the river, not from potentially devastating downpours. The land is also flat and arid — classic terrain for palm trees. And it is a stark contrast to the rolling hills of established wine country in places like southwestern France or Napa Valley in Northern California, which are far enough above or below the Equator to be in areas that winemakers have traditionally considered optimal. But now, adventurous winemakers are taking on nature in nations like Brazil. A Dão Sul subsidiary, Vinibrasil, has hundreds of rows of vines. In Thailand, the Siam Winery has floating vineyards on the Chao Phraya Delta, at 13 degrees north. And even in England, longer and hotter summers have given vintners the confidence to produce a growing range of whites and spumantes. The new latitude winemakers are still relatively unknown compared with the traditional European powers of France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, and they lag behind even the New World producers from Argentina, Australia, Chile, New Zealand, South Africa and the United States. China and Brazil, the two biggest players among the new crop of wine-producing nations, produce just 6.7 million hectoliters, or 2.4 percent of the world’s annual output, according to figures from the International Wine and Spirit Record, a London-based research company. Still, wine is becoming more popular in countries like Brazil, China and India because of a growing middle class and publicity about its health benefits. Producers in all three countries are betting those markets will grow, and there are figures to back that up. The London research company estimates that by 2011, wine consumption will rise by 12 percent in Brazil, 39 percent in China and 82 percent in India. Investors have taken notice. In addition to Dão Sul’s decision to buy into Brazil, Pernod Ricard owns brands in Brazil, Georgia and India; LVMH has invested heavily in Chandon, Brazil’s award-winning sparkling wine; and the French Champagne maker Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin is 11 years into a partnership with Grover Vineyards, one of India’s biggest producers. Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; That Other Maker of Andean Wines Brazil Cultivates U.S. Wine Drinkers International Trade and World Market Next Article in Business (4 of 33) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/business/12money.html?ex=1336622400&en=03add66c2d3e0879&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait - New York Times A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Erik Jacobs for The New York Times Laurence Kotlikoff, left, an economics professor at Boston University, is developing his own financial planning software. Dick Munroe, right, is a software engineer. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 12, 2007 Come retirement, it will finally be time to get back the money that has been extracted from your paycheck your entire working life. Skip to next paragraph It Pays to Hang In There Indeed, requesting your Social Security benefits might seem like the first order of business as soon as the going-away party is over. But you might be a lot better off waiting a bit longer, until age 66 or even 70 before tapping into the government retirement fund. Relying at first on other savings like individual retirement accounts or the 401(k) from work could raise your living standard in retirement as much as 10 percent, according to calculations made by Laurence J. Kotlikoff, an economics professor at This is unconventional advice as Mr. Kotlikoff is the first to acknowledge. But Mr. Kotlikoff, 56, who has been studying savings his entire career, thinks that much of what passes for financial advice is merely conventional wisdom. As noted here, he has annoyed the financial planning industry with his research that suggests that the calculators used to forecast retirement needs overstate the amount that must be saved. He also says that the elderly should be investing more heavily in equities rather than bonds, as most planners advise. “There is almost nothing that you can tell me about conventional financial advice that makes any sense,” he said. There are many skeptics. Margaret H. Smith, an assistant economics professor at Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., and a financial planner, thinks that a decision about when to take Social Security should not be coupled with other retirement funds. “It all depends on how long you live,” she said. As with many planners, she thinks tax-advantaged accounts, like 401(k)s or Roth I.R.A.s should be left to accumulate as long as possible. “If they can afford to take it at a later date because they have other sources of income, that’s good, but the lion’s share of people need every penny they can get,” said Chad Terry, the director for retirement solutions at the , a financial services company based in Des Moines. But there are some compelling financial reasons to at least hear Mr. Kotlikoff out. The average retirement age is now 62, not 65. Indeed, only 27 percent of Americans retire at age 65 or later, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute. The early retirement might be a direct result of the early availability of the payments. But delaying retirement can make a big difference financially. The Fidelity Research Institute did a study ( ) last year showing how advantageous a delayed retirement is. It used an example of a 55-year-old making $75,000. Upon retirement at 62, he would get $15,888 in Social Security. If retirement was postponed until 66, the amount would rise to $21,768. A further delay to age 70 would yield an annual benefit of $29, 436. There is a similar effect for those who choose to stop working at 62, but don’t tap Social Security until later. Instead of payments of $15,888, the retiree who waits until 66 receives $21,181 a year in benefits and one who delays until 70 receives a $28,821 annual stipend, or 81 percent more, the Fidelity Research Institute said. There is no additional financial benefit to delaying past 70. So why don’t more people delay taking their Social Security? Some may not know how benefits accrue. It is also possible that they figure they will die in only a few years. If that is the case, grabbing benefits early makes sense, but study after study shows Americans tend to underestimate their longevity — one reason financial planners urge people to save more. A foreboding that Social Security will not be around may be another reason Americans act early. Research by Hugo A. Benítez-Silva, Debra Sabatini Dwyer and Warren C. Sanderson at the State University of New York at Stony Brook found that the fear among Americans that future benefits might not be there drives many retirees to take benefits as soon as they are available. Researchers at the RAND Corporation are studying this issue to find ways to encourage Americans to consider delaying retirement or deferring benefit payments. Mr. Kotlikoff points out that because Social Security accounts increase at the rate of 7 percent a year from age 62 to 66 and then at 8 percent a year until age 70, retirees get a better return there than they might get on the bonds inside their I.R.A.s. “That’s a safe real return of 7 percent or 8 percent,” he said. “You can’t get anything close to that in the market.” The tax implications of raiding Social Security first does not matter much for the wealthy, but for everyone else it might. Social Security income is tax- free for an individual with a total income of less than $25,000 ($32,000 for a couple filing jointly). As income rises, the share of benefits subject to tax rises to 50 percent and then 85 percent. Here is the troublesome part and it will sound familiar to anyone who has been hit with the federal alternative minimum tax on their income: the tax on Social Security benefits is not indexed for inflation. As with the alternative tax, an increasing number of people will be subject to the benefits tax and pay more to the government than they need to. “There are a lot of taxes on Social Security benefits, if you don’t do this correctly,” Mr. Kotlikoff said. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. More Articles in Business &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Amelia Earhart - 1932. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/magazine/13audience-t.html?ex=1336708800&en=5d5b4730dd74dc8d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Jonathan Coulton - MySpace - YouTube - Rock Music - New York Times Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 in Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn, his Apple PowerBook open before him, and began slogging through the day’s e-mail. Coulton is 36 and shaggily handsome. In September 2005, he quit his job as a computer programmer and, with his wife’s guarded blessing, became a full-time singer and songwriter. He set a quixotic goal for himself: for the next year, he would write and record a song each week, posting each one to his blog. “It was a sort of forced-march approach to creativity,” he admitted to me over the sound of the cafe’s cappuccino frothers. He’d always wanted to be a full-time musician, and he figured the only way to prove to himself he could do it was with a drastic challenge. “I learned that it is possible to squeeze a song out of just about anything,” he said. “But it’s not always an easy or pleasant process.” Given the self-imposed time constraints, the “Thing a Week” songs are remarkably good. Coulton tends toward geeky, witty pop tunes: one song, “ Crazy,” is a sympathetic ode to the fame-addled star, while “Code Monkey” is a rocking anthem about dead-end programming jobs. By the middle of last year, his project had attracted a sizable audience. More than 3,000 people, on average, were visiting his site every day, and his most popular songs were being downloaded as many as 500,000 times; he was making what he described as “a reasonable middle-class living” — between $3,000 and $5,000 a month — by selling CDs and digital downloads of his work on iTunes and on his own site. Skip to next paragraph Jennifer Karady for The New York Times Getting the Word Out Jonathan Coulton at Gorilla Coffee in Brooklyn. Corresponding with fans is time-consuming, he says, but essential. Jonathan Coulton on YouTube "Code Monkey": A YouTube Video by Mike Spiff Booth Another "Code Monkey" Fan's Take on the Song An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "My Monkey" by "The Rainbow Coalition" An Animated Version of Jonathan Coulton's "re: Your Brains" by Mike Spiff Booth Along the way, he discovered a fact that many small-scale recording artists are coming to terms with these days: his fans do not want merely to buy his music. They want to be his friend. And that means they want to interact with him all day long online. They pore over his blog entries, commenting with sympathy and support every time he recounts the difficulty of writing a song. They send e-mail messages, dozens a day, ranging from simple mash notes of the “you rock!” variety to starkly emotional letters, including one by a man who described singing one of Coulton’s love songs to his 6-month-old infant during her heart surgery. Coulton responds to every letter, though as the e-mail volume has grown to as many as 100 messages a day, his replies have grown more and more terse, to the point where he’s now feeling guilty about being rude. Coulton welcomes his fans’ avid attention; indeed, he relies on his fans in an almost symbiotic way. When he couldn’t perform a guitar solo for “Shop Vac,” a glittery pop tune he had written about suburban angst — on his blog, he cursed his “useless sausage fingers” — Coulton asked listeners to record their own attempts, then held an online vote and pasted the winning riff into his tune. Other followers have volunteered hours of their time to help further his career: a professional graphic artist in Cleveland has drawn an illustration for each of the weekly songs, free. Another fan recently reformatted Coulton’s tunes so they’d be usable on karaoke machines. On his online discussion board last June, when Coulton asked for advice on how to make more money with his music, dozens of people chimed in with tips on touring and managing the media and even opinions about what kind of songs he ought to write. Coulton’s fans are also his promotion department, an army of thousands who proselytize for his work worldwide. More than 50 fans have created music videos using his music and posted them on YouTube; at a recent gig, half of the audience members I spoke to had originally come across his music via one of these fan-made videos. When he performs, he upends the traditional logic of touring. Normally, a new Brooklyn-based artist like him would trek around the Northeast in grim circles, visiting and revisiting cities like Boston and New York and Chicago in order to slowly build an audience — playing for 3 people the first time, then 10, then (if he got lucky) 50. But Coulton realized he could simply poll his existing online audience members, find out where they lived and stage a tactical strike on any town with more than 100 fans, the point at which he’d be likely to make $1,000 for a concert. It is a flash-mob approach to touring: he parachutes into out-of-the-way towns like Ardmore, Pa., where he recently played to a sold-out club of 140. His fans need him; he needs them. Which is why, every day, Coulton wakes up, gets coffee, cracks open his PowerBook and hunkers down for up to six hours of nonstop and frequently exhausting communion with his virtual crowd. The day I met him, he was examining a music video that a woman who identified herself as a “blithering fan” had made for his song “Someone Is Crazy.” It was a collection of scenes from anime cartoons, expertly spliced together and offered on YouTube. “She spent hours working on this,” Coulton marveled. “And now her friends are watching that video, and fans of that anime cartoon are watching this video. And that’s how people are finding me. It’s a crucial part of the picture. And so I have to watch this video; I have to respond to her.” He bashed out a hasty thank-you note and then forwarded the link to another supporter — this one in Britain — who runs “The Jonathan Coulton Project,” a Web site that exists specifically to archive his fan-made music videos. Clive Thompson, a contributing writer, writes frequently about technology for the magazine. Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Computers and the Internet Recordings and Downloads (Audio) Recordings and Downloads (Video) Next Article in Magazine (3 of 15) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/science/15angi.html?ex=1336881600&en=d78bcb5a83f69271&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Queen Bees - In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power - Natalie Angier - New York Times In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 15, 2007 I never much cared for royalty, although I admit that, for reasons my family and I are still struggling to understand, I named my first cat “Princess Bubbles.” Nevertheless, as I watched Queen Elizabeth II float serenely last week through her swooning colonial multitudes, here chatting with Goddard engineers on the wonders of the space age, there catching the president on blunders about the queen’s age, I couldn’t help but doff a small mental tiara to the great lady. Such sober poise and unpompous stances! She’s majestic, all right, her regalness clearly born, made and thrust upon her every day of her life. In so many ways, Elizabeth reminded me of another monarch I admire: the honeybee queen, that stoical, beloved mother to the worker masses in a beehive. Sure, Her Highness may go in for pastel solids and Her Hymenoptera for fuzzy stripes, but both are tiny, attractive celebrities prone to being swarmed. Both are kept meticulously well-groomed by a retinue of handlers and are fed high-quality foods generally unavailable to the proletariat. Both are, yes, long-lived. And both share the dubious honor of having enormous social responsibility but very little power. “The queen bee, like the queen of England, is not the ruler, and she doesn’t tell anybody what to do,” said Gene E. Robinson, a professor of integrative biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. “But she makes things work, and she makes everything better by being around.” Dr. Robinson and other researchers are trying to understand the deep nature of the honeybee: why it behaves as it does, how a young bee knows it’s time to grow up and get out of the house, how an older bee finds its way back to the house after a hard day’s work, and what distinguishes a queen bee from the tens of thousands of worker bees that surround her. The researchers are driven by more than a perfectly understandable besottedness with bees. They see bees, with their comma-sized brains, compact genomes and circumscribed set of stereotyped behaviors, as offering a relatively simple and politically unobjectionable system for deciphering the biology of behavior. To that end, they are mapping out the chemical sequence of honeybee and recently published a rough draft of the bee’s 11,000 or so genes. Researchers are also scrambling for clues, any clues, into the recent, baffling disappearance of honeybees across the United States, a potentially catastrophic trend that threatens the hundred or more food crops dependent on bees for pollination. Unlike the great bee die-offs of the past, when mites or other deadly pathogens left mounds of bee corpses lying by the hives, in the newest crisis there are as yet no bee bodies to forensically explore. The bees are simply flying off by the billions as though into the void. When beekeepers check affected nests, the combs are filled with pollen and honey, but there is almost nobody home: the workers have largely vanished, leaving the queen in an unnatural state of quiet near-solitude, helpless on her own. That a queen cannot survive without her court is a testament to the incomparable interdependence of social insect society, the pulsing, groupthinking superorganism that is the honeybee hive. Honeybees in a colony are as close-knit as cashmere, sharing up to three-quarters of their genes, compared with the 50 percent link between human siblings, and that strong kinship helps explain their highly cooperative style. They are also nearly all female. Less than 1 percent of the hive dwellers are drones, short-lived, bug-eyed males built to mate once with a queen before dropping dead to the ground with an audible pop. There is no top-down structure to honeybee society, no central command post or leaders with whips. Power is disseminated through the hive, and daily decisions about, say, whose turn it is to feed the larvae, take out the trash or fan the nectar into honey are made consensually and regionally, through a constant exchange of chemical, tactile and visual cues. “It’s a lot of local responses to local stimuli,” Dr. Robinson said. “Little things collectively give rise to decisions.” As for the queen, she is so far from being a decisive potentate that she can seem goofily out of the loop. When a colony is ready to move to a new hive, for example, about three dozen scout bees appraise the local real estate, consult with one another and with other workers and finally, communally, settle on the best new spot. Come moving day, the queen has no idea where to go and must be shown the way. The queen hasn’t time for gossip or bee-blogging. She is too busy laying eggs. That is her sole job, and one that she alone can do, for the other females in the hive lack working reproductive parts. Day in, day out, the queen remains in her climate-controlled chamber laying eggs, one or two per minute, maybe 2,500 a day. All the while she is pushed, provisioned and plucked by her retinue of nurses, her bristles kept spotless, her mandibles kept stuffed with the nutritious, high-calorie, egg-enabling delicacy called royal jelly. “I’d say that being queen is the absolute worst job in the hive,” said May R. Berenbaum, a professor of entomology at the University of Illinois. “At least the foragers get out for fresh air and some scenery.” What the queen lacks in liberty, though, she makes up for in longevity. Whereas worker bees live only two or three months, a queen lives two or three years, and some have been known to survive to age 8. Scientists are just beginning to understand how the queen so dramatically outlives her workers, when she and they arise from the same genetic roots. Dr. Robinson and his colleagues reported last month that a queen’s early exposure to royal jelly, which allowed her to mature into a queen rather than a worker, may offer her a lifetime of antioxidant protection against cellular decay. However she manages, the queen bee defies the normal rule in biology that organisms must choose between a long life and high fecundity. Her loyal subjects need her, and so she doughtily broods on. Now will they please return the favor and come back home? Sphere: Related Blogs & Articles Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Science (3 of 7) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
