http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707455.stm | Freed Chinese panda dies in wild GMT 12:11 Chinese panda dies in wild Xiang Xiang was released into Sichuan's forests in April 2006 The first Chinese panda released into the wild after being bred in captivity has died, Chinese media has announced. Xiang Xiang was released in April 2006 from the Wolong Giant Panda Research Centre and was said to be adjusting well to his new life. But the five-year-old was found dead in February. Officials said his death was likely due to a fight with wild pandas. Xiang Xiang's death is a set back for China's efforts to increase the number of giant pandas in the wild. Giant pandas are one of the world's most endangered species. Only about 1,600 remain in the wild, with another 200 living in captivity. Before his release, Xiang Xiang spent three years in a special training compound at the research centre in Sichuan province to prepare him for a natural habitat. Last year, experts there said he appeared to be integrating into the area's wild panda population. The lessons we have learnt from what happened to Xiang Xiang will help us adapt and improve the project But he was briefly taken back to the centre in December for treatment after a fight with other pandas. "We chose Xiang Xiang because we thought that a strong male panda would have a better chance of surviving in the harsh natural environment," Xinhua news agency quoted the reserve's deputy director Li Desheng as saying. "But the other male pandas clearly saw Xiang Xiang as a threat." Officials suggested that Xiang Xiang, whose injuries included broken ribs, had fallen from a high place after a fight with other pandas over food or territory. Zhang Hemin, head of the centre, said that they would continue to release pandas into the wild. "We are all sad about Xiang Xiang, but it doesn't mean the project has failed," he said. "The lessons we have learnt from what happened to Xiang Xiang will help us adapt and improve the project." The delay in reporting Xiang Xiang's death was because of the need for a full investigation, Xinhua quoted officials as saying. Chinese panda 'doing well' 10 Jul 06 | Asia-Pacific China releases panda to the wild 28 Apr 06 | Asia-Pacific China reports panda breeding boon 17 Nov 05 | Asia-Pacific Satellites to monitor panda sex 27 Sep 05 | Asia-Pacific Chinese panda gets his teeth done 09 Apr 05 | Asia-Pacific China finds more wild pandas 10 Jun 04 | Asia-Pacific BBC Science: Giant Panda Wolong Panda Conservation Centre security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6692805.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Did this man kill Litvinenko? 26 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 this man kill Litvinenko? Andrei Lugovoi has said the charges are "politically motivated" As Britain seeks the extradition of former KGB-agent Andrei Lugovoi, the chief suspect in the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, our correspondent goes to meet the man who continues to protest his innocence. The first time I met Andrei Lugovoi in his Moscow office he offered me a cup of tea. I hesitated. He laughed. Lugovoi was relaxed, amused by my discomfort, not at all on the defensive. A month later I met him again, this time at a petrol station on the Moscow ring road. He jumped out of his large Toyota four wheel drive a cheeky grin on his face. "How are you?" he said reaching out to shake my hand. Andrei Lugovoi is quite a charmer, and quite a showman. Thick snow was still on the ground as we pulled up at his walled compound deep in the forest outside Moscow. We entered a large building that looked like a gymnasium. Inside stood a group of men in military fatigues with thick necks and close-cropped hair. Performing for the camera "How about some shooting?" suggested Mr Lugovoi. "This is the only private shooting range of its type in Moscow" he told me proudly. Guns and boxes of ammunition appeared on a large table. Quickly and silently the guns were loaded. The thick set men sprang in to action: running, crouching, firing, reloading. It was an impressive show. But what about Lugovoi himself. Would he perform for the camera? Andrei Lugovoi is a former KGB bodyguard, not an ex-spy "No problem," he said. He picked up a gun and proceeded to fire off round after round, pausing to reload, and then firing away again. It is not the sort of thing I would do if I were under investigation for murder. But then there are lots of things about Mr Lugovoi that do not make sense. For a start, Andrei Lugovoi is not an obvious assassin. Much of the Western media has dwelt on his background in the KGB, suggesting he is some kind of ex-spy. But Andrei Lugovoi has never been a spy. He is, and always has been, a bodyguard. The next peculiar thing about Mr Lugovoi is his list of friends and clients. If Mr Lugovoi is an agent of the Russian state, as some have suggested, then he keeps pretty strange company. His oldest client, the man who first hired him as a bodyguard after he left the KGB, is none other than Boris Berezovsky. For those who are not familiar with Mr Berezovsky, he is the Russian billionaire who was once close to President Vladimir Putin, but is now his most avowed critic and enemy. From his base in London he runs a vocal and visceral campaign against Putin's Kremlin. Mr Berezovsky was also the closest friend and benefactor of a certain Alexander Litvinenko. Alexander Litvinenko died in hospital from radiation poisoning On the very day that Andrei Lugovoi is accused of poisoning Litvinenko at the millennium hotel in London, he also went to visit Boris Berezovsky at his Mayfair office. The subject of their meeting? A contract for Mr Lugovoi to protect the billionaire's daughter. Andrei Lugovoi is, in other words, a man who was well trusted by both Mr Berezovsky and Alexander Litvinenko. Indeed Boris Berezovsky told British police that when he first heard that Lugovoi was suspected of Litvinenko's murder, he did not believe it. There seems little doubt that British police have compelling evidence pointing the finger directly at Andrei Lugovoi. Although it has not been made public, it is well known that the most crucial evidence is the trail of radioactive Polonium 210 that seems to have followed Mr Lugovoi across Europe and around London. It was even found on the seat he used while watching an Arsenal football match at the Emirates Stadium in London. Each time I have met Andrei Lugovoi I have asked him to explain the trail of Polonium. He has never been able to do so. But the one thing he has repeated insistently is that he had no motive to kill Litvinenko. "Why would he kill someone he was hoping to do business with? Why would he jeopardize his business operations that stretch from Moscow to London, to Tel Aviv?" It is a good question, and one I have no answer to. Another is how someone like Lugovoi could have got hold of Polonium 210. Even in Russia, it is not something you can get on the black market. Polonium is extremely rare, very expensive and very difficult to handle. In Moscow conspiracy theories abound about what really happened to Alexander Litvinenko. One of the latest, and most compelling goes something like this; Lugovoi and Litvinenko were working for the British secret service. At some point last year Andrei Lugovoi got caught and turned by Russia secret service agents. They then forced him to betray and ultimately to kill his friend. It is pretty far fetched, but then so is everything about the Litvinenko case. While the evidence may point towards Lugovoi as the killer, it seems highly improbable that he acted alone. Only one thing seems fairly certain, that we will never find out who really ordered the killing of Alexander Litvinenko. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 26 May, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent 03 Mar 07 | Country profiles
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6598995.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Happy Birthday, cake GMT 11:15 of Austria's most famous cakes, the Sachertorte, is marking its 175th birthday this year. The chocolate cake brought fame and fortune to its creator, a 16-year-old apprentice chef, and once sparked a long and bitter legal battle between two of the capital's finest cake-makers. The original Sachertorte recipe is a well-kept secret "You have to understand, the Sachertorte is the aristocrat of Viennese cakes," an Austrian friend told me. We were sitting in the 19th Century splendours of the cafe at the Hotel Sacher in Vienna, with its red brocade wall paper and crystal chandeliers. On the marble table in front of me was a perfectly cut triangle of Sachertorte on a white porcelain plate - two layers of chocolate sponge spread thinly with apricot jam and covered with a thick, glazed, dark chocolate icing. On top of the cake was a round seal made of chocolate, with the words Hotel Sacher stamped on it and, at the side, an artistic swirl of unsweetened whipped cream. I paused, my fork poised over my plate, to ask my friend what she meant by aristocratic. "It is distinguished, but simple," she said. "It's made of the best ingredients but doesn't shout about its quality, not like one of those nouveau riche, over-the-top Black forest gateaux. Just look at how smooth the icing is." Sachertorte, along with apple strudel, is one of the best-loved Austrian cakes. It is available almost everywhere, from greasy spoon railway cafeterias to the elegant coffee houses of Vienna and Salzburg. Champagne goes very well with Sachertorte Elisabeth Gurtler, Hotel Sacher I have been offered Sachertorte in apres-ski bars in the mountains, at birthday parties and at election rallies. In fact the cake has even been used as an ambassador for Austria. When the country was under European Union sanctions in the year 2000, because a far right party had joined the government, Vienna sent its foreign minister and a huge Sachertorte to an EU summit in an attempt to sweeten tempers. This year there seems to be even more Sachertorte around than usual because the cake is celebrating its 175th birthday. It was created by chance one day in 1832 when the chef to the chancellor, Prince Wensel Metternich, suddenly fell ill. Hotel Sacher was involved in a legal battle with Cafe Demel until 1965 His 16-year-old apprentice, Franz Sacher, was called in to create a dessert that would not disgrace the prince and the Sachertorte was born. A few days ago I attended a small birthday party for the cake at the Hotel Sacher, which was founded by Franz Sacher's son, Eduard. The managing director Elisabeth Gurtler was running around ensuring that the guests of honour were supplied with sparkling wine. "Champagne goes very well with Sachertorte," she told me. "Where do you keep Franz Sacher's recipe?" I asked. "It is in my safe," she said. "Only a handful of people have seen it and they are sworn to secrecy. There is only one original Sachertorte... and it is ours." Over the decades, the Hotel Sacher has spent years in court fighting for its claim that it makes the original Sachertorte. Its most prominent rival was the Cafe Demel, another famous Viennese pastry-maker. The Hotel Sacher eventually won. In the marble kitchens of the Cafe Demel, I watched the head confectioner, Dietmar Muthenthaler, spread melted chocolate on a slab of Sachertorte. "What is the difference between a Demel Sachertorte and one from the Hotel Sacher?" I asked. "I can't tell you exactly," he said. "But the Sacher says it uses three types of chocolate for the icing and we use just one, our own special brand of chocolate." It has been a long time since I first tasted Sachertorte and I can't remember now whether it was at Cafe Demel or at the Hotel Sacher. I was always forced to the same conclusion: Sachertorte looks better than it tastes But I do remember being distinctly disappointed. The cake was dry. The fabled chocolate icing was too sugary and curiously sharp in flavour. It wasn't unpleasant but I had been expecting something different, something richer, more along the lines of an American brownie. It just wasn't chocolaty enough. After that I did give the cake a chance, trying it out in a number of Austrian cafes. But I was always forced to the same conclusion: Sachertorte looks better than it tastes. And so I stopped ordering it, until one winter's day when I took refuge from the cold in an old smoky cafe in the centre of Vienna. The waiter came over to take my order for coffee. "Do you have any cake?" I asked. "It's home-made," he said, "and we haven't got anything else." "All right, then," I said, "bring me a Sachertorte." He returned with my coffee and a piece of dark chocolate cake. I tasted it cautiously. It was delicious. The sponge had been made with ground hazelnuts and lots of melted chocolate, which gave it a moist, rich texture. The icing was light and creamy with a strong charge of cocoa. The thin layer of apricot jam gave the cake a subtle tang. I had finally discovered the secret of the Sachertorte. It needs to be home-made with extra chocolate. But I have to confess, I still prefer apple strudel. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday 31 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6707643.stm East | Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb GMT 12:14 killed in Iraq suicide bomb At least 20 people have been killed in a suicide bombing at a police recruitment centre in the Iraqi city of Falluja, police say. Dozens more people were wounded in the attack, which occurred at about 1100 (0700 GMT). Falluja lies west of Baghdad in Anbar province, an area that has seen heavy fighting between US and Iraqi forces and Sunni Arab insurgents. Police recruitment centres have been a regular target of insurgent attacks. Police said the bomber was wearing an explosives vest and had passed through several checkpoints when the device was detonated among a crowd of police recruits, the Associated Press news agency said. Ten policemen are reported to have been killed. The police recruitment centre had only opened on Saturday as a result of co-operation between US and Iraqi forces and a grouping of Sunni Arab tribes called the Anbar Salvation Council. The tribes joined together last year in an attempt to fight al-Qaeda forces in Anbar province. The province is one of the key battlegrounds in the insurgency, say correspondents, and pacifying it is one of the toughest challenges facing US and Iraqi forces. the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Sadr aide denies Britons kidnap Houses raided after Iraq kidnap US warns Iran over arming Iraqis Iraq car bomb kills at least 20 Leading Muslim calligrapher shot US Democrats criticised of turning their back on voters over Iraq war bill Iraq's war reaches the arts world Students brave the bombs Iraq 'facing grim future' Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence, in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Nuclear watchdog's attack warning
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6707289.stm East | Quartet urges BBC man's release GMT 10:54 urges BBC man's release Alan Johnston was abducted on his way home from work The four main international mediators for the Middle East have called for the release of BBC journalist Alan Johnston, abducted in Gaza on 12 March. The so-called Quartet of the US, Russia, the UN and the EU said "everything necessary" must be done to bring about Mr Johnston's release. Palestinian officials have said he is alive and safe and that they are doing all they can to obtain his release. Mr Johnston, 45, was seized nearly 12 weeks ago in Gaza City on his way home. Speaking after a meeting in Berlin, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon read a statement from the Quartet expressing its deep concern over the recent factional violence in Gaza. The Quartet "called upon the Palestinian Authority government in co-operation with [Palestinian Authority] President [Mahmoud] Abbas and regional actors to do everything necessary to restore law and order, including the release of kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston." Palestinian government spokesman Ghazi Hamad has said that Mr Johnston is alive, safe and could be freed soon. More than 100,000 people have written to the BBC to demand Alan Johnston's release Send messages of support Despite the assurances, there has been virtually no official news about Mr Johnston since his disappearance. He was the only Western reporter permanently based in Gaza and his abduction has triggered appeals for his release from lawmakers and rights groups around the world. More than 100,000 people have now signed an online petition calling for his release. Earlier this month, Mr Johnston was named broadcast journalist of the year by the London Press Club for his work reporting from the Gaza Strip. The BBC has been featuring special reports and interviews with friends and family in the hope that Mr Johnston may access them on radio or television. marks Alan Johnston birthday UK Palestinians in Johnston plea Iran condemns Johnston's kidnap BBC's Johnston wins press award Alan Johnston: Your messages Use your blog to support Alan Johnston - here's how Sign the online petition To our own correspondent, Alan Alan Johnston on the front line Living with risk in Gaza TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Nuclear watchdog's attack warning
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6707865.stm | GMT 13:37 prisons hold hundreds of people serving life sentences Hundreds of prisoners serving life sentences in Italy have called on President Giorgio Napolitano to bring back the death penalty. Their request was published as a letter in the daily newspaper La Repubblica. Italy has almost 1,300 prisoners serving life terms, of whom 200 have served more than 20 years. Italy has been at the forefront of the fight against capital punishment and recently lobbied the UN Security Council to table a moratorium on it. But at home some of the country's longest serving prisoners want the death penalty re-introduced. The letter they sent to President Napolitano came from a convicted mobster, Carmelo Musumeci, a 52-year-old who has been in prison for 17 years. It was co-signed by 310 of his fellow lifers. Musumeci said he was tired of dying a little bit every day. We want to die just once, he said, and "we are asking for our life sentence to be changed to a death sentence". It was a candid letter written by a man who, from within his cell, has tried hard to change his life. He has passed his high school exams and now has a degree in law. But his sentence, he says, has transformed the light into shadows. He told the president his future was the same as his past, killing the present and removing every hope. Italy abolished the death penalty after World War II. Under current laws, prisoners serving life can obtain the right to brief periods of release after 10 years and conditional release after 26 years of good conduct. The Communist Refoundation party's senator, Maria Luisa Boccia, has proposed draft legislation to abolish the life sentence and replace it with a maximum sentence of 30 years. The president has spoken many times about the need to change the sentencing regime. But in his response to the letter, he said it was now for parliament and the government to deal with the prisoners' request. Mafia boss' caught in Italy 11 Apr 06 | Europe Some murderers in jail 'too long' 09 Mar 07 | UK US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707105.stm | State of emergency ends in Fiji GMT 09:34 of emergency ends in Fiji Mr Bainimarama has retained some powers to curb dissent Fiji's military leader says he will lift a state of emergency which he imposed on the Pacific nation after seizing power in December 2006. In a televised address, Commodore Frank Bainimarama said the order would end at midnight on Thursday (1200 GMT). But other orders including media curbs and restrictions on public gatherings would remain in place, he said. The Fijian leader has been under increasing international pressure to speed up the return to democracy. Cmdr Bainimarama seized control of the country in a bloodless coup on 5 December 2006, taking power from elected Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase. He accused Mr Qarase of corruption, and was angered by his plan to offer an amnesty to those responsible for a 2000 coup which he had helped put down. Cmdr Bainimarama said that the regulations - which were extended several times - had been in place to ensure safety for civilians and their property. "It was required to move the country forward peacefully," he said. But he warned that those who threatened public order would still face police action. His coup has faced opposition both at home and abroad, with economic, diplomatic and defence sanctions imposed by Australia, New Zealand, Britain and the United States. The European Union had linked the provision of aid to an end to the state of emergency. There is also intense pressure on Cmdr Bainimarama to set a timetable for a quick return to democracy. The military leader says he will hold general elections, but not until around 2010. He says a population census needs to be completed first. show a mixed reaction to the army coup, says Phil Mercer Fiji military coup denounced Fiji military chief stages coup In pictures: Fiji coup Thai security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm 4's PM programme GMT 16:58 UK US urges new greenhouse gas goals US President George W Bush outlines a new plan to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. US 'opposes' G8 proposals Climate change around the world Andrei Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. of prisoners serving life sentences in Italy call on the president to reinstate the death penalty. Turkish MPs in reform showdown Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Russian missile 'restores balance' US arrests internet 'spam king' Thai security chiefs fear unrest ALSO IN THE NEWS Just wizard! US World's smallest horse tours US Football: Blatter re-elected at Fifa Tennis: Hewitt overcomes Gaudio Bahamas or border - oddities of the US immigration system Clash of the titans? Microsoft's Bill Gates and Apple's Steve Jobs talk technology A salute to a chocolate cake of aristocrats and court battles VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Bolivia's president shows off ball skills US schools issue 'fat reports' More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Spy death suspect 'blames UK' Blair S Africa speech in full Campaign to axe plastic bags AROUND THE WORLD NOW Blair issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions US growth weakest in four years US actor to run for president State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild EU asks industry to fight obesity Russia denies foreign energy bias Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT Did this man kill Litvinenko? The coup was Thailand's way of dealing with the corruption of the prior administration German drives down subway stairs Five Britons abducted in Baghdad Japanese minister kills himself Mass Dalit conversions in Mumbai Ukraine rivals' talks prolonged US bombardments breeding resentment in Afghanistan Tourists brave war-torn Chad to see the country's wild side Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6708821.stm East | Call for Mid-East women's rights GMT 15:49 for Mid-East women's rights Condoleezza Rice closely linked women's rights to democracy US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has called for more political rights for women in the Middle East. She said women needed such rights to be able to choose how to balance tradition with empowerment in their societies. Ms Rice was speaking at a conference in Vienna which has been examining the contribution women can make to peace efforts in the Middle East. Attending the meeting are a number of prominent women from the region. It's absolutely the case that unless women are fully participants of their societies, these societies cannot really be fully democratic These include the Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, Palestinian MP Hanan Ashrawi, the wife of the Iraqi president, Hira Talabani, and Sheikha Haya Rashed al-Khalifa, the outgoing Bahraini president of the UN General Assembly. "It's absolutely the case that unless women are fully participants of their societies, these societies cannot really be fully democratic, and that is something we're absolutely devoted to," Ms Rice said. The participants at the conference are meeting behind closed doors for a discussion entitled Women Leaders - Networking for Peace and Security in the Middle East. Hosting the meeting, Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik said those attending had no illusions about the problems in the volatile region and would not shy away from talking frankly about its "open wounds". "We have no illusions about the obstacles still facing us, nor about the urgency for action," she said. "We will not let ourselves be discouraged." in Iran over dress codes 27 Apr 07 | Middle East Veil protest dogs Kuwait minister 02 Apr 07 | Middle East Yemeni women sign up to fight terror 02 Apr 07 | Middle East Iran police stop women's protest 08 Mar 07 | Middle East Index ranks Middle East freedom 18 Nov 05 | Middle East Aids threat grows for Arab women 23 Feb 05 | Middle East TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Nuclear watchdog's attack warning
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6707333.stm | US arrests internet 'spam king' GMT 11:49 arrests internet 'spam king' Mr Soloway allegedly sent millions of e-mails on hijacked computers A man nicknamed the "spam king" for allegedly sending out millions of junk e-mails has been arrested in the US. Robert Soloway, 27, was arrested in Seattle, Washington, after being indicted on charges of mail fraud, identity theft and money laundering. Mr Soloway has pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Prosecutors say Mr Soloway became one of the world's biggest spammers, using computers secretly infected with orders to send out millions of his e-mails. Such computers are known as "zombies" because their owners often have no idea they have been hijacked for another purpose. According to prosecutors, Mr Soloway was responsible for tens of millions of unsolicited e-mails promoting his own company between November 2003 and May 2007. He is said to have frequently changed the web address of his internet marketing business to avoid being caught. A US lawyer said Mr Soloway was the first person to be prosecuted for sending out spam e-mails using federal laws against identity theft. Prosecutors want to seize the sum of $773,000 (£391,000) that Mr Soloway is said to have made from his firm. If convicted of all the charges, he also faces a fine of $250,000 (£126,500) and a maximum prison term of 65 years. plunder Plusnet e-mail 22 US crackdown on market spammers 09 Mar 07 | Business Spam surge drives net crime spree 26 Dec 06 | Technology Anatomy of a spam e-mail 11 Oct 06 | Technology TV to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6708609.stm | US actor will run for president GMT 16:05 actor will run for president Former Tennessee Senator Fred Thompson is a successful actor Fred Thompson, a Hollywood actor and former senator, has said he intends to run for US president in 2008. The 64-year-old, who joins a crowded field of Republican contenders, told newspaper USA Today about his campaign plans, ending months of speculation. He is already well known for his role as a district attorney in TV series Law & Order, and has been polling well. Mr Thompson is expected to launch a "testing the waters" committee in the next few days to start fundraising. The former two-term senator for Tennessee has already been hiring staff, making speeches and setting up a strong internet presence. Reports began circulating on Wednesday that he had decided to make official his informal but already attention-grabbing initiatives towards running for president. "I can't remember exactly the point I said, 'I'm going to do this'," Mr Thompson told USA Today in an interview published on Thursday. "But when I did, that thing that occurred to me: 'I'm going to tell people that I'm thinking about it and see what kind of reaction I get to it'." Mr Thompson has already been attracting attention with speeches He told the paper that his late start to campaigning carried "certain advantages", not least that his use of the internet "has allowed me to be in the hunt, so to speak, without spending a dime". Observers say he could pose a threat to all three of the main contenders for the Republican nomination, Senator John McCain, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Some polls have put him at second or third place among potential Republican voters struggling to decide who to back in a field of almost a dozen candidates. He has strong conservative credentials on issues such as gun control and abortion and, while he voted in 2002 to authorise the Iraq invasion, he is not as closely associated with the war as some of his rivals. His charisma and ability to perform for the crowds are expected to stand him in good stead on the campaign trail. Inevitably, parallels have been drawn between Mr Thompson and another actor-turned-politician, Ronald Reagan. The actor has asked to leave Law & Order, where he has played the astute, fatherly New York District Attorney Arthur Branch for the past five seasons, in order to concentrate on politics. He is also known to viewers for roles in the films The Hunt for Red October, in which he played a US Navy admiral, Last Best Chance and In the Line of Fire. FOR THE 2008 WHITE HOUSE Actor Thompson to run in 2008 Clinton opens song vote Republican hopefuls back war Democrats at one on Iraq Obama fundraising rivals Clinton US states vie for influence by advancing their primaries to 'Super Duper Tuesday' Winning the web war? Republicans' first TV test Hillary impresses in TV debate Guide to the top candidates Why such big war chests? Iraq looms over race How the political system works Quick guide: Presidential elections urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6708459.stm | Russia blames US in missile row GMT 14:53 blames US in missile row Mr Putin said Russia's actions were not aggressive Russian President Vladimir Putin has said a recent ballistic missile test was in answer to US plans to create a defence shield in Central Europe. Mr Putin said it was a "response to maintain the strategic balance in the world", in what he called a "new round of the arms race". He added that Russia would continue to improve its resources. Russia tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile, which can be armed with up to 10 warheads, on Tuesday. These actions by Russia should not be feared, they are not aggressive Europe diary: Missile defence "Our American partners have left the ABM (Anti-Ballistic Missile) Treaty," Mr Putin told a press conference. "We have warned them then that we will come out with a response to maintain the strategic balance in the world." Mr Putin defended Russia's actions, insisting they were not the "initiators of this new round of the arms race". "(Our partners) are stuffing Eastern Europe with new weapons," he said. "A new base in Bulgaria, another in Romania, a site in Poland, radar in the Czech Republic. What are we supposed to do? We cannot just observe all this." He added: "These actions by Russia should not be feared, they are not aggressive, it's just an answer to rather tough and unjustified unilateral actions by partners." Washington wants to deploy interceptor rockets in Poland and a radar base in the Czech Republic to counter what it describes as a potential threat from "rogue states" such as Iran and North Korea. The US maintains its system is not directed at the Russians, but Moscow says its security is being threatened. Russia's test launch took place at the Plesetsk cosmodrome in northern Russia on 29 May. The missile, called RS-24, was designed to evade missile defence systems, the Russian defence ministry says. The test missile successfully struck its target 5,500km (3,400 miles) away on the far eastern Kamchatka peninsula, the Russian Strategic Missile Forces said. diary: Missile defence 31 Russia tests long-range missile 29 Putin steps up missiles warning 27 Apr 07 | Europe Russia's treaty threat irks Nato 26 Apr 07 | Europe Russia upgrades nuclear missiles 05 Dec 06 | Europe Putin unveils 'new super missile' 31 Jan 06 | Europe blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/tennis/6708299.stm BBC SPORT | Tennis | Hewitt fights back to beat Gaudio GMT 13:44 fights back to beat Gaudio Hewitt took nearly three and a half hours to seal victory Lleyton Hewitt produced a typically gritty display to recover from two sets down to beat former champion Gaston Gaudio in the French Open second round. The 14th seed won 4-6 3-6 6-2 6-4 6-2 to book his place in the third round. Gaudio showed glimpses of the form which won him the title in 2004 as he took the first two sets, firing a series of spectacular backhand winners. But he wilted dramatically and Hewitt pounced, delivering an impressive 20 aces on his way to victory. Gaudio, 28, has hinted that this will be his last French Open and, after losing his way so spectacularly against Hewitt, he is unlikely to change his mind. Your thoughts on the action from Roland Garros The Argentine, now ranked 72 in the world after reaching a high of five, was cruising at two sets to love up but he never recovered from dropping serve at 1-1 in the third set - his three double faults gifting Hewitt the game. The Australian, who completed victory in three hours and 28 minutes, could face Rafael Nadal in the last 16 if he gets past Finland's Jarkko Nieminen in his next match. Elsewhere on Thursday, sixth seed needed four sets to see off the lowest ranked player in the tournament before making it into round three. The Serb won the first set against qualifier Laurent Recouderc fairly easily before the Frenchman won four games in a row to take the second set. Djokovic looked rattled but held his nerve to secure a 6-3 3-6 6-3 6-1 and for a place in the third round. His next opponent will be either Olivier Patience or Mariano Zabaleta. Djokovic targets top two 31 Sharapova and Serena record wins 31 31 Hewitt v Gaudio as it happened 31 Tennis on the BBC 22 Contact the BBC TV tennis team 24 Men's French Open draw 25 Women's French Open draw 25 Brits lose in French qualifying 25 23 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/football/6518647.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Blatter secures third Fifa term of the Day GMT 13:28 secures third Fifa term Blatter was first elected as Fifa president in 1998 Sepp Blatter will continue as Fifa president after standing as the only candidate for the post. No other candidate was put forward to challenge the 71-year-old, who was elected to office in June 1998 and is now expected to serve through to 2011. The Swiss succeeded Joao Havelange and won a bitter election against former Uefa president Lennart Johansson. And in 2002 Blatter saw off the challenge of Issa Hayatou, president of the African confederation Caf. "I am delighted to accept the 57th Fifa Congress's mandate to serve as president during the 2007-2011 period," he said. "I am very happy, and together we will oversee four years of continued strength for football." Blatter's second term lasted for five years rather than the usual four when Fifa decided not to end the president's term of office in the same year as the World Cup finals in Germany. Fifa had already confirmed that 66 member associations out of 207 from all six confederations nominated Blatter. At the time Blatter said: "I wish to thank all of the associations who have demonstrated their trust in me this way." And he promised: "During my third period of office, football will acquire a more pronounced and extensive social role. "Over the past nine years I have managed to overcome a range of difficulties and bring about several improvements, thanks to the help and support of members of the global football family." Blatter, the eighth president in Fifa's history, joined the organisation as technical director in 1975 and was general secretary from 1981 until 1998. Fifa chief says 'football is ill' 24 Mar 07 | Football Fifa stands firm on Owen pay-out 28 Feb 07 | Newcastle United Blatter knocks England 2018 hopes 28 Feb 07 | Internationals Holloway asked to explain remarks 09 Jan 07 | Plymouth Argyle Blatter wants summer league games 04 Dec 06 | Football Blatter warns on football corruption 27 Nov 06 | Business Blatter in support of Rooney ref 04 Jul 06 | England Blatter to seek Fifa re-election 08 Jun 06 | Europe Blatter suggests dropping anthems 22 Nov 05 | Internationals Blatter to stand down 24 Oct 02 | Football Football on the BBC Your say - 606 OTHER SPORT SITES Blatter receives unopposed third term as FIFA president - 2 hrs ago Blatter re-elected to FIFA top job - 2 hrs ago Blatter re-elected as FIFA president - 3 hrs ago FROM OTHER SPORT SITES Blatter receives unopposed third term as FIFA president - 2 hrs ago Blatter re-elected to FIFA top job - 2 hrs ago Blatter re-elected as FIFA president - 3 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6706769.stm Asia | Thirteen die in Pakistan attack GMT 06:09 die in Pakistan attack At least 13 people have been killed after unidentified gunmen entered the house of a senior government official in north-western Pakistan, police say. The home of Amiruddin, government representative in the autonomous Khyber tribal area, was attacked with rockets and hand grenades in the early morning. Police say Mr Amiruddin survived but several of his relatives died. Tank is the gateway to the South Waziristan tribal region, where al-Qaeda and the Taleban are strong. District police officer Mumtaz Zareen said it would be "premature to name elements behind the attack". Reports quoted witnesses as saying that the gunmen had stormed the house and asked the people staying there about the official's whereabouts. When they did not find the official, they went on a shooting spree in the house, reports say. Last year, incursions by Taleban militants into Tank led to a total collapse of the civil administration in the district. The police there abandoned their posts, and banks have been told to arrange their own security. The BBC's Ilyas Khan, who visited Tank recently, says the situation in the southern districts of North West Frontier Province (NWFP) is unmistakably sliding into anarchy. Tank has been the worst hit, and is as good as lost to the militants, our correspondent says. the top judge became centre of political opposition The judge and democracy Profile: PM Shaukat Aziz The scientist who confessed SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6707499.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Hezbollah's secret nectarines GMT 14:27 southern Lebanon, where the Israeli army and Hezbollah fighters fought last year, an uneasy peace reigns. But as Darius Bazargan reports, Hezbollah remains a force to be reckoned with. "Modern live/work space available to buy or rent: 400 sq metres in a sun drenched Mediterranean valley. Electricity, hot/cold running water, shower, fitted kitchen, air con, reinforced concrete construction, all metal walls, 100 metres under a mountain. Can withstand all known ordnance and most air strikes." If you are looking for a place in the sun with a difference, head for Lebanon. The south of this country is riddled with such des-res properties. Thursday 31 May 2007 1900 BST on BBC Two Inside a secret bunker They are the secret bunkers of Hezbollah, recently abandoned by the Shia Islamist guerrillas after last year's ceasefire took hold. You can find them in amongst the cluster bombs and debris of war. I spent many a sweaty day stumbling up and down the precarious slopes of Lebanese mountains, looking for such heavily disguised sites for a documentary I was filming. But where had all the fighters and their heavy weapons gone? With over 10,000 UN peacekeepers now patrolling the ground between the Israeli border and the Litani River, it has become increasingly difficult for the militants to operate in their old stamping ground. But I had heard that they were reinforcing a defensive line north of the Litani, just outside of the UN zone. From here, they could launch longer range rockets into Israel, over the heads of the peacekeepers. Dawoud Indahoud is a former Shia militiaman As we drove into the misty mountains, my trusty driver Dawoud - himself a Hezbollah supporter from south Beirut - regaled me with stories about how "The Party of God" dealt with espionage during last summer's war. "I don't know what equipment they had. But they caught these spies red-handed, put 'em up against a wall and shot the three," Dawoud said. We drove on in silence. "Killed 'em dead," he added. This was not what I needed to hear at the time. We were all alone in an extremely hostile environment. Live minefields spread out as far as the eye could see, the earth was also seeded with unexploded and unmapped cluster bombs. All across this region, mysterious activity. Bulldozers, diggers and cement mixers could be seen abandoned on hilltops, or by the roadsides, in the middle of nowhere - but no new buildings. There were fresh roads above us, but they were blocked off. Occasionally, cars packed with grim looking, black clad figures, sat guarding the entrances. All around, the Lebanese Army was manning roadblocks with an unusual alacrity, but leaving the final decision as to who they should let through to a number of other bearded gentlemen, also dressed in black and who carried Motorola walkie-talkies. Most locals were too apprehensive to do interviews, but one told us to be careful. "Hezbollah are everywhere," he said. "But you will not see them, they will see you." Another recounted how Hezbollah had restricted her family's movements on their own farmland. "The Boys", as she called them, had dumped several hundred tonnes of sand at the bottom of her garden and were shipping it out by truck. She had no idea where they were taking it or what they were doing. Sand is a vital ingredient for mixing concrete. And concrete is a vital ingredient if you are building underground bunkers. We drove down one of the new roads. What had started as a muddy cart track suddenly became a metalled road, with saplings planted on either side. Large tennis court-sized areas had been completely smoothed off and were followed by a number of squat concrete buildings, a sentry box and painted a sign declaring the area a security zone and Hezbollah territory. My driver panicked. In a grinding of gears he spun the vehicle around and got us out of there at high speed. But just as we thought we had made a lucky escape I saw a dark green truck approaching. I had pushed our luck too far. We got picked up and detained by a Hezbollah patrol. They made us an offer we could not refuse. We were to accompany them to the dingy looking farmhouse and they would find someone who could "help us to do even better filming." Inside the farmhouse were the rest of the Hezbollah cadre and we feared the worst. They did not shoot us though. They sat us down in front of a big yellow Hezbollah flag and offered us sweet tea. Hezbollah flags are flown all over southern Lebanon Then they questioned me and my driver and went through the tape in my video camera. It was blank. Luckily I had been able to swap it when they were not looking. The Hezbollah men told me that we were in a restricted military security zone, but admitted that Hezbollah had indeed been taking over the land in the area. "We are not forcing Christian or Druze off their land," one Hezbollahi insisted. "We're offering them a good price. They're moving of their own free will. Anyone can buy land here," he added, seemingly forgetting that it was a strict military zone. But what to do with their surprise guests? One man favoured formally arresting us and calling Hezbollah security agents from Beirut. Others said we were clearly a pair of nervous hacks, not spies, and just to let us go. Thankfully the latter argument prevailed. Flushed with relief, we walked back to our car. But as we were about to drive off, the strangest thing happened. One of the Hezbollah men came running up and insisted that I had to tell the truth about what the Party of God's activities are in those forbidding mountains. Hezbollah were not building new bunker networks, missile bases or anything military, he said. They were, in fact, moving into fruit production. "We are going to import nectarine plants from Italy," he said. "Then we will sell our fruits on the world market. It is most important you tell the world what we are doing." I told him absolutely, yes, of course, I would tell everyone all about the nectarines if I could just go now. Please? It was completely unprofessional of me. But I was in such a hurry to get home safely, that I forgot to ask him whether or not Hezbollah's nectarines were going to be grown organically. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 31 May, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. This World: "Hunting for Hezbollah" will be broadcast on Thursday 31 May 2007 at 1900 BST on BBC Two. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Press divided on Hariri tribunal UN approves Hariri murder court Hariri probe 'progress on motive' The US, Iran and Saudi Arabia battle to gain influence in Lebanon. UN tries to bridge Lebanon divide Protests take their toll The Lebanese crisis explained Mid-East crisis: Facts and figures Profile: Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah Lebanese viewpoints on strike 31 World
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6706921.stm | GMT 11:56 Lugovoi said he had been made a scapegoat The man suspected of poisoning ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko has said it could not have happened without the involvement of British secret services. Andrei Lugovoi, who denies killing Mr Litvinenko, told a Moscow news conference that he was a scapegoat. Mr Lugovoi said MI6 had recruited Mr Litvinenko and had also tried to recruit him, to collect information on Russian President Vladimir Putin. The UK said the matter was a criminal rather than an intelligence matter. "A British citizen was killed in London and UK citizens and visitors were put at risk," a Foreign Office spokesman said. KEY EVENTS IN CASE Alexander Litvinenko meets Andrei Lugovoi and another Russian at a London hotel Litvinenko dies in a London hospital A Litvinenko statement accuses Russian President Vladimir Putin of involvement in his death. Experts say Litvinenko was poisoned UK police say they are treating the death as murder Lugovoi should be charged with Litvinenko's murder, British prosecutors say UK makes formal request for Lugovoi's extradition from Russia Full timeline of events The UK has requested Mr Lugovoi's extradition in connection with the crime. But the Russian constitution forbids it from extraditing its own citizens. Mr Litvinenko died in November 2006 after exposure to the radioactive isotope polonium-210. Polonium-210 was found in a string of places that Mr Lugovoi visited in London, but he said he was a witness, not a suspect in the case. A former KGB officer and British agent, Oleg Gordievsky, described Mr Lugovoi's claims as "silly fantasies". He denied Mr Litvinenko had been working for the British secret services. "He used to be... a member of the FSB, it is a domestic organisation of the KGB, and MI6 is not interested in information about the domestic service, so Litvinenko was not needed," he told BBC News. Mr Lugovoi, himself an ex-KGB agent, said the poisoning could not have happened without some involvement from the British intelligence services. "Even if [British special services] hadn't done it itself, it was done under its control or connivance," he said. Asked if he had evidence of this, Mr Lugovoi said he did, without giving further details. Sasha [Litvinenko] was not my enemy Mr Lugovoi said that either British foreign intelligence agency MI6, the Russian mafia, or fugitive Kremlin opponent Boris Berezovsky were behind the killing. Mr Lugovoi said that, like Mr Litvinenko, Mr Berezovsky was working for the British secret services, but that the two men had a falling out and that MI6 could no longer control Mr Litvinenko. Mr Berezovsky, who has been granted asylum in Britain, has denied any involvement in Mr Litvinenko's death. On Thursday, Mr Berezovsky said that it was now "clearer than ever" that the Kremlin was behind the murder. "Everything about Mr Lugovoi's words and presentation made it obvious that he is acting on Kremlin instruction. If Mr Lugovoi would like to prove his innocence, I suggest again that he travel to London and face trial in the UK courts," he said in a statement. Mr Lugovoi said he was "openly recruited as the British security service agent. They asked me to collect any... compromising information about President Putin and the members of his family". He said he was initially asked to find economic information, but he said the large fees he was paid made him realise he was being recruited to do more than that. He went on to say that he lacked the motive to kill Mr Litvinenko. "Sasha [Litvinenko] was not my enemy. I didn't feel cold or hot from whatever he was doing, from the books that he was writing. I've been in business for a long time and I was not really interested," he said. Mr Lugovoi also spoke about Russians who managed to get British passports by working for special services. The British public, he said, should know what certain Russians were doing in London. AND AUDIO NEWS Some of the claims made by Andrei Lugovoi 'not harming relations' Litvinenko widow 'very pleased' CPS statement on Litvinenko Relations between Britain and Russia will be tense after Litvinenko decision Key locations in the investigation into the ex-spy's death Profile: Russia's secret police Litvinenko case: Key names blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6708875.stm | Russia denies foreign energy bias GMT 16:13 denies foreign energy bias Uncertainty surrounds foreign investment in Russian energy Russia does not discriminate against foreign firms in its pursuit of its energy needs, a key minister has said. Critics have accused Moscow of strong-arming firms such as Shell and BP to secure Russian influence over key oil and gas projects. But energy minister Viktor Khristenko said it treated both Russian and foreign firms "exactly the same". Separately, the EU's energy chief said the bloc was not threatened by the growth of Russian energy firm Gazprom. Russia provides a quarter of the EU's gas supplies but energy commissioner Andris Piebalgs said he did not believe Gazprom - its largest firm - exerted too much influence. Regular disputes between Russia and its neighbours over gas exports have led critics to accuse Moscow of using its huge energy resources as an economic and political weapon. Gazprom is very strong but I would not say too strong Andris Piebalgs, EU Energy Commissioner Shell's sale of its stake in the Sakhalin-2 project to Gazprom after pressure from Russian regulators and the prospect of BP having its licence for the Kovytka gas field - operated under a joint venture - withdrawn have made the status of foreign firms in Russia uncertain. ExxonMobil, the world's largest oil firm, recently said Moscow needed to clarify its attitude to foreign investment before it would consider further projects there. But Mr Khristenko told an energy conference that foreign firms were not being persecuted. "Our approach to foreign and domestic investors is exactly the same," he said. "Accusations floating in the air carry more risks for the participants on this global process than on the process itself." He said Gazprom would base its assessment on whether to become involved in the Kovytka project purely on its technological merits. Speaking at the same event, Mr Piebalgs said Russia was not casting a shadow over Europe's energy market despite its huge market share. "Gazprom is very strong but I would not say too strong," he noted. "The EU market is really functioning, so Gazprom has never been big enough to be a real challenge for us." As part of an overhaul of its energy policy, the EU is proposing to force firms to split up their generation and distribution functions - a move which some experts say is partly designed to keep Gazprom's growth in check. But Mr Piebalgs said its planned reforms were "not working against Russia". "It is obvious Russia needs a fair price [for energy] but the EU needs to diversify its energy source and routes." closer to losing its gas field 28 Threat to BP's Siberian gas field 21 Russia ups pressure on Sakhalin 07 Dec 06 | Business TNK-BP settles $1.4bn Russia bill 10 Nov 06 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6708277.stm | Nigeria militants set conditions GMT 14:13 militants set conditions The militants' activities have led a 25% cut in oil production The main militant group in Nigeria's Niger Delta says it is willing to stop its violent campaign only if the new government frees its jailed kinsmen. Newly sworn-in President Umaru Yar'Adua has said the crisis in the oil-rich region will be his priority and has called for a ceasefire. But the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta said he must show "genuine willingness" for dialogue. The government must prepare for more violence if it fails to act, Mend said. The militants have waged a sabotage campaign for more than a year in the under-developed region, including kidnapping dozens of foreign oil workers. The shadowy militants in Nigeria's Delta Mend said that people were tired of words and wanted urgent action to end their impoverishment. "Only time will tell if Mr Yar'Adua is not just another politician," Mend leader Jomo Gbomo said in an email to the media. "The most important requirement of the Niger Delta people is justice. Genuine negotiations towards a just resolution are sufficient hope for the people of the Delta." Although Nigeria's oil money comes from the Niger Delta, the majority of the region's people remain deeply impoverished. The activities of the militants have led to a more than 25% cut in oil production. Criminal gangs in the region have used similar tactics to obtain ransoms for the release of captives. Nigeria is Africa's largest oil producer and fifth largest supplier of crude to the US. challenges for new lead Tackling violent oil swamps What next for corruption crusade? Profile: President Umaru Yar'Adua Monitors slam poll 'charade' Difficult day at state polls Nigerians reflect on their future after disputed elections Will new leader change Nigeria? issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions Zambia's Chiluba 'to stand trial'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6707729.stm | Americas | Cold forces Argentine energy cuts 31 May 2007, 12:43 GMT 13:43 UK forces Argentine energy cuts Chile relies heavily on Argentina for natural gas Argentina has been rationing gas supplies as cold weather blamed for some 17 deaths continues to strain the country's energy system. Officials ordered that homes and small businesses be given priority for natural gas, with large industrial users told to cut back. Argentine officials said they hoped normal service would resume soon. On Monday, Argentina stopped exporting natural gas to neighbouring Chile but shipments have now been resumed. Parts of Argentina, including the capital Buenos Aires, have been experiencing near freezing temperatures this week. The strain on the country's energy infrastructure was exacerbated by technical problems at two nuclear power stations. "We have been prioritising supplies for family homes and businesses," the under-secretary for fuels, Cristian Folger, told the state news agency Telam. Restrictions on the sale of compressed natural gas for vehicles have also caused long queues at service stations, provoking protests among Buenos Aires taxi drivers whose cars run on the fuel. Correspondents say although Argentina's economy has been growing strongly in recent years, there has not been sufficient investment in infrastructure. The cold snap in Argentina is forecast to ease over the next few days. and Brazil agree gas deal 15 Feb 07 | Business South Americans reach energy deal 04 May 06 | Business Patagonia wind aids remote communities 10 Feb 06 | Americas South America unveils pipeline 02 Mar 06 | Americas Argentina energy crisis spreads 01 Apr 04 | Business US urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707455.stm | Asia-Pacific | Freed Chinese panda dies in wild 31 May 2007, 11:11 GMT 12:11 UK Chinese panda dies in wild Xiang Xiang was released into Sichuan's forests in April 2006 The first Chinese panda released into the wild after being bred in captivity has died, Chinese media has announced. Xiang Xiang was released in April 2006 from the Wolong Giant Panda Research Centre and was said to be adjusting well to his new life. But the five-year-old was found dead in February. Officials said his death was likely due to a fight with wild pandas. Xiang Xiang's death is a set back for China's efforts to increase the number of giant pandas in the wild. Giant pandas are one of the world's most endangered species. Only about 1,600 remain in the wild, with another 200 living in captivity. Before his release, Xiang Xiang spent three years in a special training compound at the research centre in Sichuan province to prepare him for a natural habitat. Last year, experts there said he appeared to be integrating into the area's wild panda population. The lessons we have learnt from what happened to Xiang Xiang will help us adapt and improve the project But he was briefly taken back to the centre in December for treatment after a fight with other pandas. "We chose Xiang Xiang because we thought that a strong male panda would have a better chance of surviving in the harsh natural environment," Xinhua news agency quoted the reserve's deputy director Li Desheng as saying. "But the other male pandas clearly saw Xiang Xiang as a threat." Officials suggested that Xiang Xiang, whose injuries included broken ribs, had fallen from a high place after a fight with other pandas over food or territory. Zhang Hemin, head of the centre, said that they would continue to release pandas into the wild. "We are all sad about Xiang Xiang, but it doesn't mean the project has failed," he said. "The lessons we have learnt from what happened to Xiang Xiang will help us adapt and improve the project." The delay in reporting Xiang Xiang's death was because of the need for a full investigation, Xinhua quoted officials as saying. Chinese panda 'doing well' 10 Jul 06 | Asia-Pacific China releases panda to the wild 28 Apr 06 | Asia-Pacific China reports panda breeding boon 17 Nov 05 | Asia-Pacific Satellites to monitor panda sex 27 Sep 05 | Asia-Pacific Chinese panda gets his teeth done 09 Apr 05 | Asia-Pacific China finds more wild pandas 10 Jun 04 | Asia-Pacific BBC Science: Giant Panda Wolong Panda Conservation Centre security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6692805.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Did this man kill Litvinenko? 26 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK this man kill Litvinenko? Andrei Lugovoi has said the charges are "politically motivated" As Britain seeks the extradition of former KGB-agent Andrei Lugovoi, the chief suspect in the murder of Alexander Litvinenko, our correspondent goes to meet the man who continues to protest his innocence. The first time I met Andrei Lugovoi in his Moscow office he offered me a cup of tea. I hesitated. He laughed. Lugovoi was relaxed, amused by my discomfort, not at all on the defensive. A month later I met him again, this time at a petrol station on the Moscow ring road. He jumped out of his large Toyota four wheel drive a cheeky grin on his face. "How are you?" he said reaching out to shake my hand. Andrei Lugovoi is quite a charmer, and quite a showman. Thick snow was still on the ground as we pulled up at his walled compound deep in the forest outside Moscow. We entered a large building that looked like a gymnasium. Inside stood a group of men in military fatigues with thick necks and close-cropped hair. Performing for the camera "How about some shooting?" suggested Mr Lugovoi. "This is the only private shooting range of its type in Moscow" he told me proudly. Guns and boxes of ammunition appeared on a large table. Quickly and silently the guns were loaded. The thick set men sprang in to action: running, crouching, firing, reloading. It was an impressive show. But what about Lugovoi himself. Would he perform for the camera? Andrei Lugovoi is a former KGB bodyguard, not an ex-spy "No problem," he said. He picked up a gun and proceeded to fire off round after round, pausing to reload, and then firing away again. It is not the sort of thing I would do if I were under investigation for murder. But then there are lots of things about Mr Lugovoi that do not make sense. For a start, Andrei Lugovoi is not an obvious assassin. Much of the Western media has dwelt on his background in the KGB, suggesting he is some kind of ex-spy. But Andrei Lugovoi has never been a spy. He is, and always has been, a bodyguard. The next peculiar thing about Mr Lugovoi is his list of friends and clients. If Mr Lugovoi is an agent of the Russian state, as some have suggested, then he keeps pretty strange company. His oldest client, the man who first hired him as a bodyguard after he left the KGB, is none other than Boris Berezovsky. For those who are not familiar with Mr Berezovsky, he is the Russian billionaire who was once close to President Vladimir Putin, but is now his most avowed critic and enemy. From his base in London he runs a vocal and visceral campaign against Putin's Kremlin. Mr Berezovsky was also the closest friend and benefactor of a certain Alexander Litvinenko. Alexander Litvinenko died in hospital from radiation poisoning On the very day that Andrei Lugovoi is accused of poisoning Litvinenko at the millennium hotel in London, he also went to visit Boris Berezovsky at his Mayfair office. The subject of their meeting? A contract for Mr Lugovoi to protect the billionaire's daughter. Andrei Lugovoi is, in other words, a man who was well trusted by both Mr Berezovsky and Alexander Litvinenko. Indeed Boris Berezovsky told British police that when he first heard that Lugovoi was suspected of Litvinenko's murder, he did not believe it. There seems little doubt that British police have compelling evidence pointing the finger directly at Andrei Lugovoi. Although it has not been made public, it is well known that the most crucial evidence is the trail of radioactive Polonium 210 that seems to have followed Mr Lugovoi across Europe and around London. It was even found on the seat he used while watching an Arsenal football match at the Emirates Stadium in London. Each time I have met Andrei Lugovoi I have asked him to explain the trail of Polonium. He has never been able to do so. But the one thing he has repeated insistently is that he had no motive to kill Litvinenko. "Why would he kill someone he was hoping to do business with? Why would he jeopardize his business operations that stretch from Moscow to London, to Tel Aviv?" It is a good question, and one I have no answer to. Another is how someone like Lugovoi could have got hold of Polonium 210. Even in Russia, it is not something you can get on the black market. Polonium is extremely rare, very expensive and very difficult to handle. In Moscow conspiracy theories abound about what really happened to Alexander Litvinenko. One of the latest, and most compelling goes something like this; Lugovoi and Litvinenko were working for the British secret service. At some point last year Andrei Lugovoi got caught and turned by Russia secret service agents. They then forced him to betray and ultimately to kill his friend. It is pretty far fetched, but then so is everything about the Litvinenko case. While the evidence may point towards Lugovoi as the killer, it seems highly improbable that he acted alone. Only one thing seems fairly certain, that we will never find out who really ordered the killing of Alexander Litvinenko. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 26 May, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent 03 Mar 07 | Country profiles Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6598995.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Happy Birthday, cake 31 May 2007, 10:15 GMT 11:15 UK of Austria's most famous cakes, the Sachertorte, is marking its 175th birthday this year. The chocolate cake brought fame and fortune to its creator, a 16-year-old apprentice chef, and once sparked a long and bitter legal battle between two of the capital's finest cake-makers. The original Sachertorte recipe is a well-kept secret "You have to understand, the Sachertorte is the aristocrat of Viennese cakes," an Austrian friend told me. We were sitting in the 19th Century splendours of the cafe at the Hotel Sacher in Vienna, with its red brocade wall paper and crystal chandeliers. On the marble table in front of me was a perfectly cut triangle of Sachertorte on a white porcelain plate - two layers of chocolate sponge spread thinly with apricot jam and covered with a thick, glazed, dark chocolate icing. On top of the cake was a round seal made of chocolate, with the words Hotel Sacher stamped on it and, at the side, an artistic swirl of unsweetened whipped cream. I paused, my fork poised over my plate, to ask my friend what she meant by aristocratic. "It is distinguished, but simple," she said. "It's made of the best ingredients but doesn't shout about its quality, not like one of those nouveau riche, over-the-top Black forest gateaux. Just look at how smooth the icing is." Sachertorte, along with apple strudel, is one of the best-loved Austrian cakes. It is available almost everywhere, from greasy spoon railway cafeterias to the elegant coffee houses of Vienna and Salzburg. Champagne goes very well with Sachertorte Elisabeth Gurtler, Hotel Sacher I have been offered Sachertorte in apres-ski bars in the mountains, at birthday parties and at election rallies. In fact the cake has even been used as an ambassador for Austria. When the country was under European Union sanctions in the year 2000, because a far right party had joined the government, Vienna sent its foreign minister and a huge Sachertorte to an EU summit in an attempt to sweeten tempers. This year there seems to be even more Sachertorte around than usual because the cake is celebrating its 175th birthday. It was created by chance one day in 1832 when the chef to the chancellor, Prince Wensel Metternich, suddenly fell ill. Hotel Sacher was involved in a legal battle with Cafe Demel until 1965 His 16-year-old apprentice, Franz Sacher, was called in to create a dessert that would not disgrace the prince and the Sachertorte was born. A few days ago I attended a small birthday party for the cake at the Hotel Sacher, which was founded by Franz Sacher's son, Eduard. The managing director Elisabeth Gurtler was running around ensuring that the guests of honour were supplied with sparkling wine. "Champagne goes very well with Sachertorte," she told me. "Where do you keep Franz Sacher's recipe?" I asked. "It is in my safe," she said. "Only a handful of people have seen it and they are sworn to secrecy. There is only one original Sachertorte... and it is ours." Over the decades, the Hotel Sacher has spent years in court fighting for its claim that it makes the original Sachertorte. Its most prominent rival was the Cafe Demel, another famous Viennese pastry-maker. The Hotel Sacher eventually won. In the marble kitchens of the Cafe Demel, I watched the head confectioner, Dietmar Muthenthaler, spread melted chocolate on a slab of Sachertorte. "What is the difference between a Demel Sachertorte and one from the Hotel Sacher?" I asked. "I can't tell you exactly," he said. "But the Sacher says it uses three types of chocolate for the icing and we use just one, our own special brand of chocolate." It has been a long time since I first tasted Sachertorte and I can't remember now whether it was at Cafe Demel or at the Hotel Sacher. I was always forced to the same conclusion: Sachertorte looks better than it tastes But I do remember being distinctly disappointed. The cake was dry. The fabled chocolate icing was too sugary and curiously sharp in flavour. It wasn't unpleasant but I had been expecting something different, something richer, more along the lines of an American brownie. It just wasn't chocolaty enough. After that I did give the cake a chance, trying it out in a number of Austrian cafes. But I was always forced to the same conclusion: Sachertorte looks better than it tastes. And so I stopped ordering it, until one winter's day when I took refuge from the cold in an old smoky cafe in the centre of Vienna. The waiter came over to take my order for coffee. "Do you have any cake?" I asked. "It's home-made," he said, "and we haven't got anything else." "All right, then," I said, "bring me a Sachertorte." He returned with my coffee and a piece of dark chocolate cake. I tasted it cautiously. It was delicious. The sponge had been made with ground hazelnuts and lots of melted chocolate, which gave it a moist, rich texture. The icing was light and creamy with a strong charge of cocoa. The thin layer of apricot jam gave the cake a subtle tang. I had finally discovered the secret of the Sachertorte. It needs to be home-made with extra chocolate. But I have to confess, I still prefer apple strudel. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday 31 May, 2007 at 1100 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6707643.stm | Middle East | Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb 31 May 2007, 11:14 GMT 12:14 UK killed in Iraq suicide bomb At least 20 people have been killed in a suicide bombing at a police recruitment centre in the Iraqi city of Falluja, police say. Dozens more people were wounded in the attack, which occurred at about 1100 (0700 GMT). Falluja lies west of Baghdad in Anbar province, an area that has seen heavy fighting between US and Iraqi forces and Sunni Arab insurgents. Police recruitment centres have been a regular target of insurgent attacks. Police said the bomber was wearing an explosives vest and had passed through several checkpoints when the device was detonated among a crowd of police recruits, the Associated Press news agency said. Ten policemen are reported to have been killed. The police recruitment centre had only opened on Saturday as a result of co-operation between US and Iraqi forces and a grouping of Sunni Arab tribes called the Anbar Salvation Council. The tribes joined together last year in an attempt to fight al-Qaeda forces in Anbar province. The province is one of the key battlegrounds in the insurgency, say correspondents, and pacifying it is one of the toughest challenges facing US and Iraqi forces. the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Sadr aide denies Britons kidnap Houses raided after Iraq kidnap US warns Iran over arming Iraqis Iraq car bomb kills at least 20 Leading Muslim calligrapher shot US Democrats criticised of turning their back on voters over Iraq war bill Iraq's war reaches the arts world Students brave the bombs Iraq 'facing grim future' Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence, in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6707289.stm | Middle East | Quartet urges BBC man's release 31 May 2007, 09:54 GMT 10:54 UK urges BBC man's release Alan Johnston was abducted on his way home from work The four main international mediators for the Middle East have called for the release of BBC journalist Alan Johnston, abducted in Gaza on 12 March. The so-called Quartet of the US, Russia, the UN and the EU said "everything necessary" must be done to bring about Mr Johnston's release. Palestinian officials have said he is alive and safe and that they are doing all they can to obtain his release. Mr Johnston, 45, was seized nearly 12 weeks ago in Gaza City on his way home. Speaking after a meeting in Berlin, UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon read a statement from the Quartet expressing its deep concern over the recent factional violence in Gaza. The Quartet "called upon the Palestinian Authority government in co-operation with [Palestinian Authority] President [Mahmoud] Abbas and regional actors to do everything necessary to restore law and order, including the release of kidnapped BBC journalist Alan Johnston." Palestinian government spokesman Ghazi Hamad has said that Mr Johnston is alive, safe and could be freed soon. More than 100,000 people have written to the BBC to demand Alan Johnston's release Send messages of support Despite the assurances, there has been virtually no official news about Mr Johnston since his disappearance. He was the only Western reporter permanently based in Gaza and his abduction has triggered appeals for his release from lawmakers and rights groups around the world. More than 100,000 people have now signed an online petition calling for his release. Earlier this month, Mr Johnston was named broadcast journalist of the year by the London Press Club for his work reporting from the Gaza Strip. The BBC has been featuring special reports and interviews with friends and family in the hope that Mr Johnston may access them on radio or television. marks Alan Johnston birthday UK Palestinians in Johnston plea Iran condemns Johnston's kidnap BBC's Johnston wins press award Alan Johnston: Your messages Use your blog to support Alan Johnston - here's how Sign the online petition To our own correspondent, Alan Alan Johnston on the front line Living with risk in Gaza TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6708277.stm | Africa | Nigeria militants set conditions 31 May 2007, 16:29 GMT 17:29 UK militants set conditions The militants' activities have led a 25% cut in oil production The main militant group in Nigeria's Niger Delta says it is willing to stop its violent campaign only if the new government frees its jailed kinsmen. Newly sworn-in President Umaru Yar'Adua has said the crisis in the oil-rich region will be his priority and has called for a ceasefire. But the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta said he must show "genuine willingness" for dialogue. The government must prepare for more violence if it fails to act, Mend said. The militants have waged a sabotage campaign for more than a year in the under-developed region, including kidnapping dozens of foreign oil workers. The activities of the militants have led to a more than 25% cut in oil production. Criminal gangs in the region have used similar tactics to obtain ransoms for the release of captives. Mend said that people were tired of words and wanted urgent action to end their impoverishment. The shadowy militants in Nigeria's Delta "Only time will tell if Mr Yar'Adua is not just another politician," Mend leader Jomo Gbomo said in an email to the media. "The most important requirement of the Niger Delta people is justice. Genuine negotiations towards a just resolution are sufficient hope for the people of the Delta." The BBC's Abdullahi Kaura in the Niger Delta says the militants want to make it clear to Mr Yar'Adua that they are standing firm. Mend militants have always demanded the release of a militant leader Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, who is charged with treason, and former Bayelsa State governor Diepreye Alamieseigha, who standing trial for alleged money laundering. Analysts say putting an end to the Niger Delta violence will be a slow and frustrating as hostage taking has become a very profitable business and the proliferation of arms in the region all combine to make the militants very powerful. Although Mend appears to be the most prominent militant group in the region, analysts say there are other copycat criminal gangs that may not be interested in negotiations with the government. Some of the militants are also believed to be involved in "bunkering", a term used to describe the breaking of pipelines and stealing fuel which is then sold illegally. Insiders say it would be difficult for the militants to willingly give up this lucrative lifestyle. Although Nigeria's oil money comes from the Niger Delta, the majority of the region's people remain deeply impoverished. Nigeria is Africa's largest oil producer and fifth largest supplier of crude to the US. challenges for new lead Tackling violent oil swamps What next for corruption crusade? Profile: President Umaru Yar'Adua Monitors slam poll 'charade' Difficult day at state polls Nigerians reflect on their future after disputed elections Will new leader change Nigeria? issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions Zambia's Chiluba 'to stand trial' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6707865.stm | Europe | Italy inmates seek death penalty 31 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK inmates seek death penalty Italian prisons hold hundreds of people serving life sentences Hundreds of prisoners serving life sentences in Italy have called on President Giorgio Napolitano to bring back the death penalty. Their request was published as a letter in the daily newspaper La Repubblica. Italy has almost 1,300 prisoners serving life terms, of whom 200 have served more than 20 years. Italy has been at the forefront of the fight against capital punishment and recently lobbied the UN Security Council to table a moratorium on it. But at home some of the country's longest serving prisoners want the death penalty re-introduced. The letter they sent to President Napolitano came from a convicted mobster, Carmelo Musumeci, a 52-year-old who has been in prison for 17 years. It was co-signed by 310 of his fellow lifers. Musumeci said he was tired of dying a little bit every day. We want to die just once, he said, and "we are asking for our life sentence to be changed to a death sentence". It was a candid letter written by a man who, from within his cell, has tried hard to change his life. He has passed his high school exams and now has a degree in law. But his sentence, he says, has transformed the light into shadows. He told the president his future was the same as his past, killing the present and removing every hope. Italy abolished the death penalty after World War II. Under current laws, prisoners serving life can obtain the right to brief periods of release after 10 years and conditional release after 26 years of good conduct. The Communist Refoundation party's senator, Maria Luisa Boccia, has proposed draft legislation to abolish the life sentence and replace it with a maximum sentence of 30 years. The president has spoken many times about the need to change the sentencing regime. But in his response to the letter, he said it was now for parliament and the government to deal with the prisoners' request. Mafia boss' caught in Italy 11 Apr 06 | Europe Some murderers in jail 'too long' 09 Mar 07 | UK US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707105.stm | Asia-Pacific | State of emergency ends in Fiji 31 May 2007, 08:34 GMT 09:34 UK of emergency ends in Fiji Mr Bainimarama has retained some powers to curb dissent Fiji's military leader says he will lift a state of emergency which he imposed on the Pacific nation after seizing power in December 2006. In a televised address, Commodore Frank Bainimarama said the order would end at midnight on Thursday (1200 GMT). But other orders including media curbs and restrictions on public gatherings would remain in place, he said. The Fijian leader has been under increasing international pressure to speed up the return to democracy. Cmdr Bainimarama seized control of the country in a bloodless coup on 5 December 2006, taking power from elected Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase. He accused Mr Qarase of corruption, and was angered by his plan to offer an amnesty to those responsible for a 2000 coup which he had helped put down. Cmdr Bainimarama said that the regulations - which were extended several times - had been in place to ensure safety for civilians and their property. "It was required to move the country forward peacefully," he said. But he warned that those who threatened public order would still face police action. His coup has faced opposition both at home and abroad, with economic, diplomatic and defence sanctions imposed by Australia, New Zealand, Britain and the United States. The European Union had linked the provision of aid to an end to the state of emergency. There is also intense pressure on Cmdr Bainimarama to set a timetable for a quick return to democracy. The military leader says he will hold general elections, but not until around 2010. He says a population census needs to be completed first. show a mixed reaction to the army coup, says Phil Mercer Fiji military coup denounced Fiji military chief stages coup In pictures: Fiji coup Thai security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:49 GMT 17:49 UK US urges new greenhouse gas goals US President George W Bush outlines a new plan to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. US 'opposes' G8 proposals Climate change around the world Andrei Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. Italy inmates seek death penalty Hundreds of prisoners serving life sentences in Italy call on the president to reinstate the death penalty. Turkish MPs in reform showdown Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Russian missile 'restores balance' ElBaradei urges no Iran attack US arrests internet 'spam king' Thai security chiefs fear unrest ALSO IN THE NEWS Just wizard! Harry Potter theme park planned for US World's smallest horse tours US Football: Blatter re-elected at Fifa Tennis: Hewitt overcomes Gaudio Bahamas or border - oddities of the US immigration system Clash of the titans? Microsoft's Bill Gates and Apple's Steve Jobs talk technology A salute to a chocolate cake of aristocrats and court battles VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Bolivia president kicks off Fifa protest Bush calls for climate action UN Hariri move proves divisive More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Spy death suspect 'blames UK' Bloody Sunday victims 'innocent' Blair S Africa speech in full AROUND THE WORLD NOW Blair issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions US growth weakest in four years Cold forces Argentine energy cuts State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild EU asks industry to fight obesity Russia denies foreign energy bias Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT Did this man kill Litvinenko? The coup was Thailand's way of dealing with the corruption of the prior administration German drives down subway stairs Five Britons abducted in Baghdad Japanese minister kills himself Mass Dalit conversions in Mumbai Ukraine rivals' talks prolonged US bombardments breeding resentment in Afghanistan Tourists brave war-torn Chad to see the country's wild side Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6708459.stm | Europe | Russia blames US in missile row 31 May 2007, 13:53 GMT 14:53 UK blames US in missile row Mr Putin said Russia's actions were not aggressive Russian President Vladimir Putin has said a recent ballistic missile test was in answer to US plans to create a defence shield in Central Europe. Mr Putin said it was a "response to maintain the strategic balance in the world", in what he called a "new round of the arms race". He added that Russia would continue to improve its resources. Russia tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile, which can be armed with up to 10 warheads, on Tuesday. These actions by Russia should not be feared, they are not aggressive Europe diary: Missile defence "Our American partners have left the ABM (Anti-Ballistic Missile) Treaty," Mr Putin told a press conference. "We have warned them then that we will come out with a response to maintain the strategic balance in the world." Mr Putin defended Russia's actions, insisting they were not the "initiators of this new round of the arms race". "(Our partners) are stuffing Eastern Europe with new weapons," he said. "A new base in Bulgaria, another in Romania, a site in Poland, radar in the Czech Republic. What are we supposed to do? We cannot just observe all this." He added: "These actions by Russia should not be feared, they are not aggressive, it's just an answer to rather tough and unjustified unilateral actions by partners." Washington wants to deploy interceptor rockets in Poland and a radar base in the Czech Republic to counter what it describes as a potential threat from "rogue states" such as Iran and North Korea. The US maintains its system is not directed at the Russians, but Moscow says its security is being threatened. Russia's test launch took place at the Plesetsk cosmodrome in northern Russia on 29 May. The missile, called RS-24, was designed to evade missile defence systems, the Russian defence ministry says. The test missile successfully struck its target 5,500km (3,400 miles) away on the far eastern Kamchatka peninsula, the Russian Strategic Missile Forces said. diary: Missile defence 31 Russia tests long-range missile 29 Putin steps up missiles warning 27 Apr 07 | Europe Russia's treaty threat irks Nato 26 Apr 07 | Europe Russia upgrades nuclear missiles 05 Dec 06 | Europe Putin unveils 'new super missile' 31 Jan 06 | Europe blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6708395.stm | US economy weakest in four years 31 May 2007, 14:11 GMT 15:11 UK economy weakest in four years Firms have been cutting down on their supplies The US economy grew at a pace of 0.6% in the first three months of 2007, its weakest rate in more than four years, official figures have shown. Hit by Americans importing more goods and firms cutting their supply stockpiles, the figure was a downward revision on the initial 1.3% estimate. The latest figure from the Commerce Department was also worse than market expectations of 0.8%. It was the slowest rate of growth since the final three months of 2002. Another significant factor for the weak showing was the downturn in the housing market, which posted a 15.4% reduction in new home building during the quarter. Weakness in the housing market is also hitting the US economy However, consumer spending remained resilient, adding 4.4%. And business investment was better than earlier estimates, growing 2.9%, revised up from 2%. "It looked like the market was starting to lean into the wind, anticipating a weak number, and we got a little sell-off when it did come in," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at Bank of New York. "But it's quite obvious the economy bottomed in the first quarter and this leaves us with a better base from which to bounce back." Other analysts are also confident that the figures for April to June will be much better. "I think we'll see second-quarter growth above 3% and 2.5% for all of 2007," said Lehman Brothers senior economist Drew Matus. Earlier this week, minutes from the last Federal Reserve meeting showed that the central bank continued to see inflation as the "predominant concern" for the US economy. The Fed left interest rates unchanged at 5.25% at its last meeting on 9 May. In its minutes, the Fed added that the housing market downturn had been more severe than expected, but that the risk of the US economy slowing abruptly had lessened. Separate figures on Thursday showed that US construction spending rose by an unexpected 0.1% in April, led by public and commercial building work. Economists had predicted no change. approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6709215.stm | Europe | Turkish MPs force reform showdown 31 May 2007, 16:39 GMT 17:39 UK MPs force reform showdown Mr Erdogan, casting his vote here, supports the reforms Turkish MPs have defied a presidential veto by approving for a second time controversial reforms that would allow ordinary voters to elect the president. An earlier motion in favour of the reforms was vetoed by outgoing President Ahmet Necdet Sezer. He cannot use his veto again and must now either accept the constitutional reforms or put them to a referendum. Turkey's Islamist-rooted government says the reform plans are popular and could end a political stalemate. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan, of the governing AK Party, has said the reforms will make Turkey more democratic. But President Sezer says a directly elected president would make the executive too powerful and upset Turkey's constitutional checks and balances. The president is currently elected by parliament. The vote comes after MPs failed to elect the AKP's presidential candidate, Abdullah Gul. Turkish secularists suspect the AKP has an Islamist agenda. MPs back reform package Turkey party calls for early poll Turkey's presidency vote annulled Battle for Turkish parliament Mapping the road ahead Tough test for democracy Q&A: Turkey's political crisis Defending the secular 'faith' How can crisis be resolved? Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/nuclear_detectives/6707457.stm | Nuclear Detectives | Nuclear watchdog's attack warning Our Own Correspondent Thursday, 31 May 2007, 14:01 GMT 15:01 UK watchdog's attack warning Dr ElBaradei said the jury is out on whether Iran wants nuclear weapons The head of the UN's nuclear watchdog has given one of his sternest warnings against using military action to halt Iran's uranium enrichment programme. Dr Mohamed ElBaradei, head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, described those wanting to bomb Iranian nuclear facilities as "new crazies". They had not learned the lessons of Iraq, added Dr ElBaradei. He made his comments in an interview for a BBC Radio 4 documentary to be broadcast at 2000BST on Friday. This is not the first time that Dr ElBaradei has spoken out against the possibility of using force against Iran, but it is perhaps his strongest warning to date. Tehran is still refusing to bow to demands from the UN Security Council to halt its uranium enrichment programme, which the United States fears would give it access to material for a bomb. You do not want to give additional argument to new crazies who say 'let's go and bomb Iran' Dr ElBaradei said a nuclear-armed Iran would be terrible but the jury was still out as to whether the country even wanted nuclear weapons. But he said you could not "bomb knowledge", and he was scathing towards those who still favoured air strikes after the experience of intervention in Iraq. "I wake every morning and see 100 Iraqis innocent civilians are dying," he said. "I have no brief other than to make sure we don't go into another war or that we go crazy into killing each other. You do not want to give additional argument to new crazies who say 'let's go and bomb Iran.'" Asked who the "new crazies" were he replied: "Those who have extreme views and say the only solution is to impose your will by force." Dr ElBaradei said he was not referring to President George Bush but his remarks are likely to be interpreted as a swipe at those neo-conservatives in the US who still favour military action. In the light of Iran's secretive dealings with black market nuclear suppliers he said it owed his agency a confession over its once clandestine activities. In his latest report, last week, he said Iran continued to enrich uranium and information on its activities was now "deteriorating." Dr ElBaradei angered the US, UK, France and Germany backing the idea that Iran should be allowed limited uranium enrichment under strict supervision. His comments last week sparked immediate complaints from the countries. Inside the IAEA - A year with the nuclear detectives will be broadcast BBC Radio 4, 2000 BST 31 May and 7 June 2000 BST. to push for new Iran sanctions West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme ElBaradei pushes 'third way' Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report A year with the nuclear detectives Nuclear watchdog's attack warning Meeting the nuclear 'librarians' Stopping the dirty bomb 'threat' 24 East International Atomic Energy Agency Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/tennis/6708299.stm BBC SPORT | Tennis | Hewitt fights back to beat Gaudio 31 May 2007, 12:44 GMT 13:44 UK fights back to beat Gaudio Hewitt took nearly three and a half hours to seal victory Lleyton Hewitt produced a typically gritty display to recover from two sets down to beat former champion Gaston Gaudio in the French Open second round. The 14th seed won 4-6 3-6 6-2 6-4 6-2 to book his place in the third round. Gaudio showed glimpses of the form which won him the title in 2004 as he took the first two sets, firing a series of spectacular backhand winners. But he wilted dramatically and Hewitt pounced, delivering an impressive 20 aces on his way to victory. The Australian, who next faces Jarkko Nieminen, is on course for a last 16 meeting with , who remained on course for a French Open hat-trick with a routine 6-2 6-1 6-4 win over Flavio Cipolla. Your thoughts on the action from Roland Garros Nadal completely outclassed his Italian opponent in the first two sets but Cipolla, the world number 227, put up some brave resistance in the third. However, the defending champion managed to establish an early break before closing out victory in under two hours. Nadal's third-round opponent will be Albert Montanes of Spain or Latvia's Ernests Gulbis. Hewitt said he had to be patient against his inconsistent opponent. "You don't know really what you'll get from him. He's such a great shot maker," said Hewitt. "At first he played fantastically. I didn't feel like I played that poorly out there. "I knew that he was going to have ups and downs and it was a matter of me not having those downs at any point." Gaudio, 28, has hinted that this will be his last French Open and, after losing his way so spectacularly against Hewitt, he is unlikely to change his mind. The Argentine, now ranked 72 in the world after reaching a high of five, was cruising at two sets to love up but he never recovered from dropping serve at 1-1 in the third set - his three double faults gifting Hewitt the game. Elsewhere on Thursday, sixth seed needed four sets to see off the lowest ranked player in the tournament before making it into round three. The Serb won the first set against qualifier Laurent Recouderc fairly easily before the Frenchman won four games in a row to take the second set. Djokovic looked rattled but held his nerve to secure a 6-3 3-6 6-3 6-1 and for a place in the third round. His next opponent will be France's , who beat Mariano Zabaleta 7-5 6-3 3-6 2-6 6-4. Djokovic targets top two 31 Sharapova and Serena record wins 31 31 Hewitt v Gaudio as it happened 31 Tennis on the BBC 22 Contact the BBC TV tennis team 24 Men's French Open draw 25 Women's French Open draw 25 Brits lose in French qualifying 25 23 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/football/6518647.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Blatter secures third Fifa term of the Day Thursday, 31 May 2007, 12:28 GMT 13:28 UK secures third Fifa term Blatter was first elected as Fifa president in 1998 Sepp Blatter will continue as Fifa president after standing as the only candidate for the post. No other candidate was put forward to challenge the 71-year-old, who was elected to office in June 1998 and is now expected to serve through to 2011. The Swiss succeeded Joao Havelange and won a bitter election against former Uefa president Lennart Johansson. And in 2002 Blatter saw off the challenge of Issa Hayatou, president of the African confederation Caf. "I am delighted to accept the 57th Fifa Congress's mandate to serve as president during the 2007-2011 period," he said. "I am very happy, and together we will oversee four years of continued strength for football." Blatter's second term lasted for five years rather than the usual four when Fifa decided not to end the president's term of office in the same year as the World Cup finals in Germany. Fifa had already confirmed that 66 member associations out of 207 from all six confederations nominated Blatter. At the time Blatter said: "I wish to thank all of the associations who have demonstrated their trust in me this way." And he promised: "During my third period of office, football will acquire a more pronounced and extensive social role. "Over the past nine years I have managed to overcome a range of difficulties and bring about several improvements, thanks to the help and support of members of the global football family." Blatter, the eighth president in Fifa's history, joined the organisation as technical director in 1975 and was general secretary from 1981 until 1998. Fifa chief says 'football is ill' 24 Mar 07 | Football Fifa stands firm on Owen pay-out 28 Feb 07 | Newcastle United Blatter knocks England 2018 hopes 28 Feb 07 | Internationals Holloway asked to explain remarks 09 Jan 07 | Plymouth Argyle Blatter wants summer league games 04 Dec 06 | Football Blatter warns on football corruption 27 Nov 06 | Business Blatter in support of Rooney ref 04 Jul 06 | England Blatter to seek Fifa re-election 08 Jun 06 | Europe Blatter suggests dropping anthems 22 Nov 05 | Internationals Blatter to stand down 24 Oct 02 | Football Football on the BBC Your say - 606 OTHER SPORT SITES Blatter receives unopposed third term as FIFA president - 2 hrs ago Blatter re-elected to FIFA top job - 3 hrs ago Blatter re-elected as FIFA president - 3 hrs ago FROM OTHER SPORT SITES Blatter receives unopposed third term as FIFA president - 2 hrs ago Blatter re-elected to FIFA top job - 3 hrs ago Blatter re-elected as FIFA president - 3 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6707499.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Hezbollah's secret nectarines 31 May 2007, 13:27 GMT 14:27 UK southern Lebanon, where the Israeli army and Hezbollah fighters fought last year, an uneasy peace reigns. But as Darius Bazargan reports, Hezbollah remains a force to be reckoned with. "Modern live/work space available to buy or rent: 400 sq metres in a sun drenched Mediterranean valley. Electricity, hot/cold running water, shower, fitted kitchen, air con, reinforced concrete construction, all metal walls, 100 metres under a mountain. Can withstand all known ordnance and most air strikes." If you are looking for a place in the sun with a difference, head for Lebanon. The south of this country is riddled with such des-res properties. Thursday 31 May 2007 1900 BST on BBC Two Inside a secret bunker They are the secret bunkers of Hezbollah, recently abandoned by the Shia Islamist guerrillas after last year's ceasefire took hold. You can find them in amongst the cluster bombs and debris of war. I spent many a sweaty day stumbling up and down the precarious slopes of Lebanese mountains, looking for such heavily disguised sites for a documentary I was filming. But where had all the fighters and their heavy weapons gone? With over 10,000 UN peacekeepers now patrolling the ground between the Israeli border and the Litani River, it has become increasingly difficult for the militants to operate in their old stamping ground. But I had heard that they were reinforcing a defensive line north of the Litani, just outside of the UN zone. From here, they could launch longer range rockets into Israel, over the heads of the peacekeepers. Dawoud Indahoud is a former Shia militiaman As we drove into the misty mountains, my trusty driver Dawoud - himself a Hezbollah supporter from south Beirut - regaled me with stories about how "The Party of God" dealt with espionage during last summer's war. "I don't know what equipment they had. But they caught these spies red-handed, put 'em up against a wall and shot the three," Dawoud said. We drove on in silence. "Killed 'em dead," he added. This was not what I needed to hear at the time. We were all alone in an extremely hostile environment. Live minefields spread out as far as the eye could see, the earth was also seeded with unexploded and unmapped cluster bombs. All across this region, mysterious activity. Bulldozers, diggers and cement mixers could be seen abandoned on hilltops, or by the roadsides, in the middle of nowhere - but no new buildings. There were fresh roads above us, but they were blocked off. Occasionally, cars packed with grim looking, black clad figures, sat guarding the entrances. All around, the Lebanese Army was manning roadblocks with an unusual alacrity, but leaving the final decision as to who they should let through to a number of other bearded gentlemen, also dressed in black and who carried Motorola walkie-talkies. Most locals were too apprehensive to do interviews, but one told us to be careful. "Hezbollah are everywhere," he said. "But you will not see them, they will see you." Another recounted how Hezbollah had restricted her family's movements on their own farmland. "The Boys", as she called them, had dumped several hundred tonnes of sand at the bottom of her garden and were shipping it out by truck. She had no idea where they were taking it or what they were doing. Sand is a vital ingredient for mixing concrete. And concrete is a vital ingredient if you are building underground bunkers. We drove down one of the new roads. What had started as a muddy cart track suddenly became a metalled road, with saplings planted on either side. Large tennis court-sized areas had been completely smoothed off and were followed by a number of squat concrete buildings, a sentry box and painted a sign declaring the area a security zone and Hezbollah territory. My driver panicked. In a grinding of gears he spun the vehicle around and got us out of there at high speed. But just as we thought we had made a lucky escape I saw a dark green truck approaching. I had pushed our luck too far. We got picked up and detained by a Hezbollah patrol. They made us an offer we could not refuse. We were to accompany them to the dingy looking farmhouse and they would find someone who could "help us to do even better filming." Inside the farmhouse were the rest of the Hezbollah cadre and we feared the worst. They did not shoot us though. They sat us down in front of a big yellow Hezbollah flag and offered us sweet tea. Hezbollah flags are flown all over southern Lebanon Then they questioned me and my driver and went through the tape in my video camera. It was blank. Luckily I had been able to swap it when they were not looking. The Hezbollah men told me that we were in a restricted military security zone, but admitted that Hezbollah had indeed been taking over the land in the area. "We are not forcing Christian or Druze off their land," one Hezbollahi insisted. "We're offering them a good price. They're moving of their own free will. Anyone can buy land here," he added, seemingly forgetting that it was a strict military zone. But what to do with their surprise guests? One man favoured formally arresting us and calling Hezbollah security agents from Beirut. Others said we were clearly a pair of nervous hacks, not spies, and just to let us go. Thankfully the latter argument prevailed. Flushed with relief, we walked back to our car. But as we were about to drive off, the strangest thing happened. One of the Hezbollah men came running up and insisted that I had to tell the truth about what the Party of God's activities are in those forbidding mountains. Hezbollah were not building new bunker networks, missile bases or anything military, he said. They were, in fact, moving into fruit production. "We are going to import nectarine plants from Italy," he said. "Then we will sell our fruits on the world market. It is most important you tell the world what we are doing." I told him absolutely, yes, of course, I would tell everyone all about the nectarines if I could just go now. Please? It was completely unprofessional of me. But I was in such a hurry to get home safely, that I forgot to ask him whether or not Hezbollah's nectarines were going to be grown organically. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Thursday, 31 May, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. This World: "Hunting for Hezbollah" will be broadcast on Thursday 31 May 2007 at 1900 BST on BBC Two. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Press divided on Hariri tribunal UN approves Hariri murder court Hariri probe 'progress on motive' The US, Iran and Saudi Arabia battle to gain influence in Lebanon. UN tries to bridge Lebanon divide Protests take their toll The Lebanese crisis explained Mid-East crisis: Facts and figures Profile: Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah Lebanese viewpoints on strike 31 World Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6706921.stm | Europe | 31 May 2007, 10:56 GMT 11:56 UK Lugovoi said he had been made a scapegoat The man suspected of poisoning ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko has said it could not have happened without the involvement of British secret services. Andrei Lugovoi, who denies killing Mr Litvinenko, told a Moscow news conference that he was a scapegoat. Mr Lugovoi said MI6 had recruited Mr Litvinenko and had also tried to recruit him, to collect information on Russian President Vladimir Putin. The UK said the matter was a criminal rather than an intelligence matter. "A British citizen was killed in London and UK citizens and visitors were put at risk," a Foreign Office spokesman said. KEY EVENTS IN CASE Alexander Litvinenko meets Andrei Lugovoi and another Russian at a London hotel Litvinenko dies in a London hospital A Litvinenko statement accuses Russian President Vladimir Putin of involvement in his death. Experts say Litvinenko was poisoned UK police say they are treating the death as murder Lugovoi should be charged with Litvinenko's murder, British prosecutors say UK makes formal request for Lugovoi's extradition from Russia Full timeline of events The UK has requested Mr Lugovoi's extradition in connection with the crime. But the Russian constitution forbids it from extraditing its own citizens. Mr Litvinenko died in November 2006 after exposure to the radioactive isotope polonium-210. Polonium-210 was found in a string of places that Mr Lugovoi visited in London, but he said he was a witness, not a suspect in the case. A former KGB officer and British agent, Oleg Gordievsky, described Mr Lugovoi's claims as "silly fantasies". He denied Mr Litvinenko had been working for the British secret services. "He used to be... a member of the FSB, it is a domestic organisation of the KGB, and MI6 is not interested in information about the domestic service, so Litvinenko was not needed," he told BBC News. Mr Lugovoi, himself an ex-KGB agent, said the poisoning could not have happened without some involvement from the British intelligence services. "Even if [British special services] hadn't done it itself, it was done under its control or connivance," he said. Asked if he had evidence of this, Mr Lugovoi said he did, without giving further details. Sasha [Litvinenko] was not my enemy Mr Lugovoi said that either British foreign intelligence agency MI6, the Russian mafia, or fugitive Kremlin opponent Boris Berezovsky were behind the killing. Mr Lugovoi said that, like Mr Litvinenko, Mr Berezovsky was working for the British secret services, but that the two men had a falling out and that MI6 could no longer control Mr Litvinenko. Mr Berezovsky, who has been granted asylum in Britain, has denied any involvement in Mr Litvinenko's death. On Thursday, Mr Berezovsky said that it was now "clearer than ever" that the Kremlin was behind the murder. "Everything about Mr Lugovoi's words and presentation made it obvious that he is acting on Kremlin instruction. If Mr Lugovoi would like to prove his innocence, I suggest again that he travel to London and face trial in the UK courts," he said in a statement. Mr Lugovoi said he was "openly recruited as the British security service agent. They asked me to collect any... compromising information about President Putin and the members of his family". He said he was initially asked to find economic information, but he said the large fees he was paid made him realise he was being recruited to do more than that. He went on to say that he lacked the motive to kill Mr Litvinenko. "Sasha [Litvinenko] was not my enemy. I didn't feel cold or hot from whatever he was doing, from the books that he was writing. I've been in business for a long time and I was not really interested," he said. Mr Lugovoi also spoke about Russians who managed to get British passports by working for special services. The British public, he said, should know what certain Russians were doing in London. AND AUDIO NEWS Some of the claims made by Andrei Lugovoi 'not harming relations' Litvinenko widow 'very pleased' CPS statement on Litvinenko Relations between Britain and Russia will be tense after Litvinenko decision Key locations in the investigation into the ex-spy's death Profile: Russia's secret police Litvinenko case: Key names blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6708875.stm | Russia denies foreign energy bias 31 May 2007, 15:13 GMT 16:13 UK denies foreign energy bias Uncertainty surrounds foreign investment in Russian energy Russia does not discriminate against foreign firms in its pursuit of its energy needs, a key minister has said. Critics have accused Moscow of strong-arming firms such as Shell and BP to secure Russian influence over key oil and gas projects. But energy minister Viktor Khristenko said it treated both Russian and foreign firms "exactly the same". Separately, the EU's energy chief said the bloc was not threatened by the growth of Russian energy firm Gazprom. Russia provides a quarter of the EU's gas supplies but energy commissioner Andris Piebalgs said he did not believe Gazprom - its largest firm - exerted too much influence. Regular disputes between Russia and its neighbours over gas exports have led critics to accuse Moscow of using its huge energy resources as an economic and political weapon. Gazprom is very strong but I would not say too strong Andris Piebalgs, EU Energy Commissioner Shell's sale of its stake in the Sakhalin-2 project to Gazprom after pressure from Russian regulators and the prospect of BP having its licence for the Kovytka gas field - operated under a joint venture - withdrawn have made the status of foreign firms in Russia uncertain. ExxonMobil, the world's largest oil firm, recently said Moscow needed to clarify its attitude to foreign investment before it would consider further projects there. But Mr Khristenko told an energy conference that foreign firms were not being persecuted. "Our approach to foreign and domestic investors is exactly the same," he said. "Accusations floating in the air carry more risks for the participants on this global process than on the process itself." He said Gazprom would base its assessment on whether to become involved in the Kovytka project purely on its technological merits. Speaking at the same event, Mr Piebalgs said Russia was not casting a shadow over Europe's energy market despite its huge market share. "Gazprom is very strong but I would not say too strong," he noted. "The EU market is really functioning, so Gazprom has never been big enough to be a real challenge for us." As part of an overhaul of its energy policy, the EU is proposing to force firms to split up their generation and distribution functions - a move which some experts say is partly designed to keep Gazprom's growth in check. But Mr Piebalgs said its planned reforms were "not working against Russia". "It is obvious Russia needs a fair price [for energy] but the EU needs to diversify its energy source and routes." closer to losing its gas field 28 Threat to BP's Siberian gas field 21 Russia ups pressure on Sakhalin 07 Dec 06 | Business TNK-BP settles $1.4bn Russia bill 10 Nov 06 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6612719.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Meeting the world's heaviest man 2 June 2007, 11:07 GMT 12:07 UK the world's heaviest man BBC News, Mexico City Manuel Uribe weighs as much as seven adult men To really appreciate Manuel Uribe's size, you have to do a bit of lateral thinking. Picture in your mind an ordinary adult male. And another. And another. And another. And another. And, finally, one more. Seven fully grown men in all, standing in a line. Now, add up their weight. Only then would you be getting close to Manuel Uribe. The raw statistics are breathtaking. At his peak, he weighed 560kg, or 1234lb, or 88st. That's half a ton. Small Japanese cars come in lighter. I got a shock when I first met Manuel. He'd agreed to meet us at his home in Monterrey, northern Mexico. I had expected him to be closeted in an upstairs bedroom, out of sight. But no. I stepped out of our taxi in front of what appeared to be a shop. And there he was - in the window. The whole world can walk past gazing incredulously at Manuel as he lies on his reinforced bed. It is not a shop, of course, it's his home. More remarkably, Manuel has no problem with all the staring, not any more. A short while ago, Manuel tried to take his own life, so depressed was he by his size. But these days you could not meet a more engaging, funny and contented man. And the cause of his new found happiness? His weight loss. From being billed as the heaviest man on the planet, he is now heading for a different record. The human who has lost the most weight. Here, too, the numbers are eye-popping: in the past year, Manuel has shed 180kg or 400lb or 25st. Put another way, it is as if two fully grown men have climbed off his body. "I am happy, I am really happy," he says. No-one knows for sure why Manuel joined the ranks of the hyper-obese, or morbidly obese, as his doctors call it. He lived for 14 years in Dallas, Texas, and he himself blames an unending diet of burgers, pizzas and fizzy drinks. But the doctors and other scientists are not so sure. They believe even the most gluttonous over-indulgence could not produce the kind of excess body weight Manuel has succumbed to. Instead, they think Manuel was super-sized by nature. His nutritionist says the diet focuses on controlling his hormones A fault in his genes which triggered the inflammation of his molecular structure. Whatever the cause, the team of medics and nutritionists around him now have come up with a specialist diet that has produced remarkable results. We arrived just as meal time was starting. One of five meals a day. Manuel tucked into a delicious looking bowl of fish soup, complete with large chunks of fish. That was followed by a grapefruit and half an apple, rounded off with 18 peanuts. Yes, 18 peanuts. Everything Manuel eats is calculated down to the last detail. Literally down to the last peanut. I take one day at a time. The doctors told me I had a choice. To choose life or to choose death. I chose life "It's all about blocks," Manuel says. " My food is broken down into blocks. Every thing I eat has a value. A grapefruit is two blocks. Six peanuts are one block." And so it goes on. By adding up the blocks he knows how much food he is allowed per meal. All his food intake has been scientifically calculated to make sure he gets exactly what his body needs. "It's about controlling his hormones," says Alejandra Garcia, one of Manuel's nutritionists. "If he eats the right nutrients you control his hormones. If you control his hormones you determine his weight. It is not some outlandish fad diet. It is simple common sense refined by science." That means they have worked out his exact intake of carbohydrates, proteins and fats. And, they say, this can be done for anyone. As Manuel shuffles around the bed he has not left since 2002, he tells me he never gets hungry. "I can eat chicken, kiwi fruit, even zero calorie cola drinks," he says. His mother Otilia agrees - she is the one who looks after all his needs, especially his food. Manuel and his mother in slimmer times "I am so proud of him now," she says. "He is so much more at ease with life." His new food programme has re-energised his life - he now has a girlfriend and wants children. He has bought a giant massage machine to maintain the circulation in the legs he can no longer close or move. He has his own website and has started the Manuel Uribe Foundation to spread the word that weight loss for obese people is possible - and permanent. His own body mass has been heading south for more than a year now. Manuel says his aim to get down to 120kg, or 264lb or 19st. It means losing a further 260kg, or 572lb, or 40st. That is like another three men climbing off his body. "I take one day at a time," he says, "the doctors told me I had a choice. To choose life or to choose death. I chose life." A smile then appears on the face of this larger-than-life character.         From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 2 June, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent International food Policy Research Institute family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6711895.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | America's great faith divide 2 June 2007, 11:06 GMT 12:06 UK great faith divide The current US presidential debates are almost certain to see the candidates asked to comment on spiritual issues, but some Americans are worried about the trend towards religiosity in public life. Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton will be challenged on their beliefs At my twins' annual school camp in West Virginia, you are meant to leave your troubles behind. It is an idyllic couple of days - a communing with nature which my wife gallantly insists is simply too enjoyable for her to take part in - it has to be a dad's experience. Actually it is not that uncomfortable. The tents are sensible structures with plenty of room to stand up. There are rudimentary bunk beds you can bang your head on in the early morning. The setting is a reminder too of the size of the United States - only two hours from the nation's capital, these are woods and fields as empty and isolated as any in the Scottish Highlands. The kids love it. They and 20 other seven-year-olds, roast marshmallows by the campfire, catch tadpoles in the pond, and roam around, unwashed, at five in the morning in the early light of the West Virginia day, pointing their torches into each other's tents. "Did Cole see a bug and sleep in his dad's car? Did Peter's water bottle break? Did Talia's mum fall out of bed?" Etc etc, and then comes breakfast. Breakfast is an indoors affair, not luxurious but hey this is America and these are middle class kids and some parents are beginning to flag by seven in the morning and there is a need for the familiar comforts of multi-coloured cereals and soy milk. First though - a silence. "Please take off your hats," asks the jolly camp counsellor (yes, that is what they call them). She looks down and up again. The silence lasts less than 30 seconds and my two children discover that there are pancakes with M&Ms inside them and we give the silence not another thought. But I am a foreigner here, an anthropologist, and one of the pitfalls of anthropology is that there are some things you have to be a member of the tribe to really get. Unbeknownst to me the silence has caused outrage, or to be more precise, has caused pleasure to some and great outrage to others. I discover this later when talking to a dad about the post silence debate which took place between certain concerned parents and the silence enforcing camp counsellor. Basically the problem is this: What was the silence? Was it contemplative or was it religious? The distinction to my English mind was unimportant. I am personally not religious but I am not fussed about the trappings of religion in the public space. The Creation Museum exhibits the Earth's history according to the Bible To me it is part of life, no big deal, but in modern America it is a big deal. Some parents believed that the breakfast silence was an attempt by a religious cabal to take over our camp, to insinuate their beliefs into our get-together, to steal the minds of our kids. Are they right to be in such a funk? I am not sure that they are. America is famously religious, infamously if you like, but try as they might, the real hard-line theocracy crowd repeatedly fail to get their ideas to fly. When you visit them, as I did, coincidentally, just days after the breakfast silence issue, you find a group of people in a funk comparable to that of the atheists. I was at the Creation Museum in Kentucky, the day after it opened, a moment evangelicals should really have been celebrating with great gusto. And to an extent they were. The museum is a striking place, with wonderfully life-like models of Adam and Eve and the garden of Eden, and an airy, well put-together feel. But I did not get the impression from those in charge or from those visiting, that they considered themselves to be on the march in modern America. In fact the whole thing had a slightly beleaguered feel. One parent confided: "At last there's a place I can bring the kids where they are taught what we teach them at home." Another asked me almost plaintively whether I was convinced by the museum's planetarium where the sun was created after the Earth. I had to be honest and say that I was not, but I felt quite sorry as I did. There is nothing remotely convincing about the Creation Museum and frankly if it poses the threat to American science that some American critics claim it does, that seems to me to be as much a commentary on the failings of the scientific establishment as it is on the creationists. At the Creation Museum goggle-eyed children watch depictions of the Great Flood There is a reason, I think, why theocracy will never fly in the United States and it has been touched on, inadvertently, by George Bush himself. Mr Bush often makes the point that the philosophy of the Islamic radicals, full of hate and oppression, would not be attractive to people who truly had the freedom to choose. Similarly the philosophy of the Old Testament, so much celebrated by some evangelicals here, has a limited power to enthral free people. At the Creation Museum, goggle-eyed children watch depictions of the Great Flood in which children and their mums and dads are consumed, because God is cross. In a nation of kindly moderate people I am not sure this is the future. I put my faith - in America. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday, 2 June, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent Democrat hopefuls spar over Iraq Actor Thompson to run in 2008 Clinton opens song vote Republican hopefuls back war Democrats at one on Iraq Obama fundraising rivals Clinton Sparks fly as Democratic rivals hold second live debate Issues shaping the campaign Thompson recalls Reagan era States vie for primary power Winning the web war? Guide to the top candidates Why such big war chests? How the political system works Quick guide: Presidential elections Which is the strongest candidate? family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6719757.stm | South Asia | New controls on media in Pakistan 4 June 2007, 17:15 GMT 18:15 UK controls on media in Pakistan Gen Musharraf is facing an unprecedented challenge to his rule President Pervez Musharraf has signed into immediate effect measures to increase control over the media. Current regulations related to television have been extended to the internet and mobile phones. Some regulations on who is allowed to be licensed to broadcast in Pakistan have been extended to cover "any foreign non-governmental organisation". Gen Musharraf has been highly critical of the media in recent weeks over its coverage of opposition protests. Correspondents say Gen Musharraf is facing the most serious challenge to his rule from a coalition of opposition parties and groups. Their frequent street demonstrations mark the first big protest movement in Pakistan to take place as the country has entered an era of rapidly expanding, live TV news coverage. The protests were sparked off by Gen Musharraf's suspension of the chief justice of the Supreme Court on 9 March. The amended media regulations were changed on Monday because "circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action", a government statement said. Chief Justice Chaudhry is now the centre of the opposition Broadcasters and cable distributors who break the rules could have their premises closed down. Non-print media in Pakistan is regulated by the Pakistan Electronic Media Regulatory Authority (Pemra). Pemra will now also be able to suspend the licence of an offender. Talat Hussein, the director of news for one leading station, Aaj TV, told the BBC: "The government is getting frustrated... and the messenger is being killed for the message." He was critical of Gen Musharraf for pushing through legal amendments at a time when parliament is not in session. "It's a repressive law and it's very clear that the government does not want any visuals on the TV screens which are against its policies," Mr Hussein said. Regulations previously only applying to 'direct to home' television services will now apply to 'IPTV, Mobile TV' (video content on the internet and TV on mobile phones). The new rules also extend the restrictions on foreign broadcasting in Pakistan. Until now there were bans on non-Pakistanis and foreign companies. The new restrictions now include "any foreign non-governmental organisation". Correspondents say it is not yet clear what this new clause will mean in practice. Since the current political crisis began in March the media, in particular television, have come under the spotlight. President Musharraf has openly criticised TV stations for giving airtime to his critics. On Friday top army commanders said there was a "malicious campaign" against institutions of the state by a small minority of vested interests. On the same day two private TV channels were prevented from live broadcasting after making alleged criticisms of the army and judiciary. Gen Musharraf suspended Supreme Court Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry because he said he was guilty of misuse of office. Judge Chaudhry's supporters say that Gen Musharraf was trying to muzzle the independence of the judiciary in an election year. Most of Pakistan's legal community came out in open support of the judge. They were soon joined by Pakistan's religious and secular opposition parties. Many of their protests have resulted in bloodshed. the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device How the top judge became centre of political opposition The judge and democracy Profile: PM Shaukat Aziz The scientist who confessed SOUTH ASIA STORIES New controls on media in Pakistan Tribal group drops India protest Army U-turn on Kashmir holy sites family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/6712169.stm | From Our Own Correspondent | Dutch courage in Brazil 2 June 2007, 11:06 GMT 12:06 UK courage in Brazil Brazil's history might be more frequently associated with Portuguese rule than Dutch, but for 25 years from 1630, the Netherlands controlled 1,000 miles of coastline in the north-east of the country. Today the two countries are keen to preserve the Dutch connection. St John's, a large medieval brick castle, stands with towers and crenellations within its moat where ducks quietly swim. A few hundred metres away rises The Picture Gallery, another handsome medieval brick building where a gaggle of excited schoolchildren gather under its august portal, waiting impatiently to enter. The two buildings stand amid impeccable lawns and gurgling fountains, and they recall one of the better maintained properties of the National Trust in the home counties of England. This is strange because we are beside the south Atlantic Ocean outside the city of Recife in Brazil, and the apparently medieval buildings have actually been up for less than a decade. The castle contains an astonishing range of ancient weapons and armour - for horses as well as men - and other medieval artifacts. Beside it, the gallery houses 20,000 books, paintings and other works of art. It is the finest possible monument to one of the most intriguing moments of Western hemisphere history. For 25 years from 1630, it was the Calvinist Netherlanders and not the Catholic Portuguese who held sway over this part of Brazil. The Dutchmen at the peak of their power set up the West Indies Company to trade in slaves from Africa and goods across the south Atlantic, and Brazil was their market. They came, captured 1,000 miles of coastland and set up in business. For some years the Dutch governor was a cultivated and enlightened man called Jan Maurits of Nassau, who brought over the artist Frans Post. He created some lovely Brazilian landscapes in the Dutch style. But the burghers of Amsterdam refused the company's appeal for new funds to resist Portuguese attempts to recover the land that their seafarers had discovered in 1500. Had they come up with the money, Dutch and not Portuguese might still be spoken here today. But by 1655 the Hollanders were defeated and their language and culture disappeared from Brazil, keeping a foothold in South America only in Surinam to the north, which remains Dutch-speaking to this day. The task of preserving the memory of the Netherlanders' moment of glory in Brazil has been adopted by the Brennand family who came here from Yorkshire at the beginning of the 19th Century. They went into business, made several fortunes and constructed and now maintain the buildings, their priceless contents and the surrounding estate. Ricardo Brennand, a sprightly man in his late 70s, takes great pleasure in greeting some of the tens of thousands of visitors his premises attract. "I'm delighted that people come here from far and wide to see what we've got together," he tells me over coffee and cake in the gallery's cool and shaded cafe. Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands visited Ricardo Brennand in Recife He is proud to have had a visit from Queen Beatrix and Crown Prince Willem-Alexander. But to be frank few people today either here or in the Netherlands are too bothered about the history of the south Atlantic in the 17th Century. What is putting wind into the sails of the topic today is business. The Brazilians see the Dutch connection as a fine way of tempting rich northern Europeans to their already popular holiday resorts. Consequently many plans are being hatched to persuade airlines to maintain better connections. Thought is also going into smartening up the architectural remains of the era such as the old Dutch forts. Here the Dutch garrisons waited, often in vain, for reinforcements and food from Holland. Now Dutch experts are about to start on a big restoration project in this city. Eduardo Campos, the governor of the Brazilian state of Pernambuco of which Recife is the capital, told me proudly that he had met the Dutch Foreign Minister Bernard Bot. Both sides had agreed that Rotterdam, the world's largest port, would help to modernise Pernambuco's harbours. So the wounds of fighting and occupation of 350 years ago are healing. But they are not quite gone. In Olinda, a beautiful town, one of the earliest in Brazil and now a Unesco World Heritage site, I came across an old watchman employed to care for one of its oldest and most beautiful buildings. He showed me into a little painted chapel. "This is really original," he said slowly, "from the mid 1500s. The rest had to be reconstructed after the Dutch captured Olinda and burnt it down in 1631." Memories still die hard in north-eastern Brazil and some of them - despite the splendid efforts of the Brennand family - are tinged with a touch of unhappiness. From Our Own Correspondent was broadcast on Saturday 2 June, 2007 at 1130 GMT on BBC Radio 4. Please check the for World Service transmission times. reflections by BBC correspondents around the world SEARCH FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT: Three Ways to Listen From Our Own Correspondent 12 profiles Government of the Republic of Cuba family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/l/liverpool/6717793.stm BBC SPORT | Football | My Club | Liverpool | Caborn and Parry hit back at Uefa 4 June 2007, 13:05 GMT 14:05 UK and Parry hit back at Uefa Caborn (left) and Parry have hit out at Uefa's criticism of fans Sports minister Richard Caborn has backed Liverpool chief executive Rick Parry after a Uefa report criticised the behaviour of Liverpool fans. European football's governing body said Reds fans had been involved in more incidents than any other in Europe. But Parry said: "The shortcomings in the management of the situation in Athens were apparent to anyone there." And Caborn said: "Uefa must stop playing the blame game and stop pointing fingers at people." Interview: Uefa spokesman William Gaillard Ticketless fans caused trouble at May's Champions League final against AC Milan in Athens, although Liverpool officials and fans criticised security at the game. Uefa spokesman William Gaillard said the problems in Greece were typical of the behaviour of some Liverpool supporters during the past four years. Spokesman William Gaillard said: "That was just the latest example. What other fans steal tickets from fellow fans or from the hands of children?" But Parry hit back, saying: "What is most surprising about the latest comments from Mr Gaillard is that on the eve of the final, he quite rightly commented that Liverpool supporters 'have a tradition of good behaviour'. You must ask yourself why at the Champions League, with the same conditions, there was no trouble with the Milan fans - only the Liverpool fans Uefa spokesman William Gaillard "Let's not forget that these same supporters who Mr Gaillard is claiming are now the worst in Europe were praised by Uefa President Michel Platini after our semi-final victory against Chelsea only last month. "They were commended for their behaviour in Istanbul in 2005 and actually honoured by Uefa at a gala dinner in Monte Carlo in 2001 as joint Supporters of the Years with Alves after the Uefa Cup final." Caborn, who will be presented with Uefa's report on Tuesday, said: "This is about finding solutions, not looking back and saying what has happened but more about how to stop this happening in the future. "I have given this message to Rick Parry this morning in a phone call and I will be giving the very same message to Michel Platini when I see him on Tuesday." In the report, Uefa paints a damning picture of the Anfield club's supporters' behaviour at the Champions League final. Gaillard added: "We know what happened in Athens, and Liverpool fans were the cause of most of the trouble there. "There have been 25 incidents involving Liverpool fans away from home since 2003 and these are in the report - most teams' supporters do not cause any trouble at all." Liverpool have sent their own report to Uefa complaining about lax security measures at the final. Many supporters with forged tickets or no tickets at all managed to gain access to the stadium. That led to fans with legitimate tickets being denied entry to the ground. Disorder broke out before kick-off when fans were held back because of congestion outside the ground. Police told fans going through the penultimate checkpoint to slow down or even stop moving, then riot police formed a line to stop other fans joining queues to move through the checkpoint. Former Conservative leader and Liverpool fan Michael Howard was at the game and said ticket checks at the stadium were "a joke". How can Uefa choose a football ground without a turnstile - just a metal gate that opens - its just not football is it?" Liverpool fanzine editor Andy Knott Fans were already aggrieved over Uefa's ticket allocation for the Champions League final, with the governing body making 17,000 tickets available to each club for a stadium that had a capacity of 63,000. Of those tickets, Liverpool were able to make just 11,000 available to fans because of obligations to sponsors and former players. But Gaillard said: "You must ask yourself why at the same match, with the same conditions, there was no trouble with the Milan fans - only the Liverpool fans." But the city of Liverpool hit back at Uefa's criticism. Lord Mayor Paul Clark was quoted in the Liverpool Daily Post as saying: "Uefa appear to be trying to avoid the blame for the disorganisation of the final." Les Lawson, spokesman for the official LFC supporters' club, said: "This is typical of Uefa. Rather than look at their own shortcomings, they want to shove the blame somewhere else. "The fact they are not willing to stand up and take responsibility is worrying for fans, because that means they will never learn from their mistakes." Council leader Warren Bradley said: "Uefa is dragging Liverpool's name through the mud to deflect attention from themselves. "There should be a full and appropriate investigation. There is very little information about what actually went wrong. "It was only a small minority who caused problems but the people at the top of Uefa think they have the divine right to criticise people." Phil Hammond, of the Hillsborough Justice Support Group, added: "We condemn the behaviour of some fans, but it was not helped by the way the police acted, they made it worse. Uefa are not justified in making these comments." Andy Knott from the Liverpool fanzine Red All Over told BBC Radio Five Live that both the fans and the authorities were to blame for what happened in Europe this season. What are your thoughts on the Uefa report? He said: "It's a culmination of everything. The Liverpool fans weren't innocent and a lot of them have got to have a look at themselves and take that into account. "But at the same time Uefa have got to look at it and instead of trying to give token games to people with big stadiums, they've got to do it in a proper way. "I mean how you can have a football ground without a turnstile - where it's just a metal gate that opens and you walk through - its just not football is it?" Ahead of the final in Athens, Uefa president Michel Platini said: "I am convinced that both Liverpool and Milan fans will contribute to making the Athens final a landmark in festive behaviour. "I would also like to take this opportunity to thank and praise the fans who have attended the semi-finals for creating such a wonderful atmosphere at the matches. "They have contributed in a positive manner to making the semi-finals such an exciting spectacle." Uefa blames Reds fans for chaos 24 24 AC Milan 2-1 Liverpool 23 Football on the BBC Liverpool fans' views on 606 BBC Where I Live - Liverpool PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6718001.stm | Middle East | Egyptian Brethren appear in court 4 June 2007, 08:39 GMT 09:39 UK Brethren appear in court Shatir is said to be number three in the Brotherhood set-up A military trial has resumed briefly in Egypt of more than 40 members of the banned opposition Muslim Brotherhood. More than 100 lawyers turned up to represent the accused at a military base north of Cairo, but only a few were allowed into the courtroom. Reporters, human rights workers and members of the defendants' families were also excluded. Defendants pleaded not guilty to charges including terrorism and money laundering and the trial was adjourned. Defence lawyers had boycotted the first session in April, saying they were not notified of the start date. Proceedings will resume in mid-July. Correspondents say the trial is part of an ongoing crackdown against the Brotherhood, whose members hold one-fifth of parliamentary seats and pose the most significant challenge to the government. One of the group, who went on trial last month, is a senior Brotherhood figure, Khayrat al-Shatir. A civilian court has twice ordered the release of Mr Shatir and some of the other defendants, but the authorities overturned the rulings under Egypt's long-standing emergency legislation. The Brotherhood is outlawed in Egypt, but has traditionally been tolerated. Its members - standing as independents - enjoyed significant success in the 2005 parliamentary polls, despite allegations of serious irregularities favouring President Hosni Mubarak's party. In May, a court overruled a presidential order that the defendants should stand trial in a military court. term for al-Jazeera reporter Gamal denies desire to lead Egypt Egypt policeman shot at protest Muslim Brothers in military trial Constitutional changes are described as a step forward, but feared by critics. Egypt bloggers fear state curbs Fears for Egypt 'torture' victim Concern over nuclear plans The media in Egypt TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES New vow to spread Lebanon battle Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6718283.stm | Middle East | Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog 4 June 2007, 11:47 GMT 12:47 UK seeks Mid-East watchdog Amnesty says military steps are geared to protect settlers not Israel A human rights group has called for the creation of an international monitoring body to address human rights violations by Israel and the Palestinians. Amnesty International says the body must have a mandate to investigate and prosecute offenders. It also denounced the barrier Israel is building in the West Bank and called on Palestinians to end militant attacks. The report marks 40 years since the Mid-East war which led to Israel's occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. Amnesty's UK director Kate Allen said Israel could not justify its behaviour in the West Bank under security grounds. "Legitimate security concerns are no excuse for... the mistreatment of thousands of Palestinians in a massive programme of collective punishment," she said. In response to the report, Israel's government defended its observance of international law, and Palestinian rights activists said what was needed was a peacekeeping force - not more monitors with no mandate to intervene. Amnesty says the barrier is being built illegally. This is the conclusion the International Court of Justice came to in an advisory ruling in 2004. It also says the barrier has caused unnecessary suffering, and even the deaths of Palestinians. The UK-based group says it is unjustifiable because it does not separate Israel from the West Bank, but curtails Palestinian movement within the occupied territory. Guide: West Bank barrier The structure is almost half built, and when finished will be about twice the length of the Israel-West Bank boundary because of loops onto occupied land designed to protect Israeli settlements. The report, "Enduring Occupation - Palestinians under siege in the West Bank", also criticises government-backed Israeli settlement activity which it says is the reason behind many of the military measures. Israel rejected the criticism, which Deputy Prime Minister Shimon Peres saying the Palestinians were responsible for their lot. "The enormous problems caused by the security barrier are the consequences of the second intifada and the buses that the Palestinian suicide bombers coming from the West Bank exploded in Israel." Amnesty argues that Israeli military measures appear to exist mainly for the benefit of settlements, not citizens living in Israel. Amnesty says that since September 2000, Israeli forces have killed some 4,000 Palestinians, most of them unarmed civilians and including about 800 children. Palestinian armed groups have killed more than 1,100 Israelis, some 750 of them civilians and including 120 children. About a third of the Israeli civilians killed by Palestinian armed groups were settlers in the occupied territories. Amnesty stressed that the settlers are civilians who should never be targeted. The group said human rights violations by both sides highlighted the need for an effective international watchdog. "This must be backed up with a commitment to investigate and prosecute, through the exercise of universal jurisdiction, those who commit war crimes or other crimes under international law." released of BBC's Johnston Palestinians killed in West Bank Norway sends aid to Palestinians Israelis seize Fatah legislator Israeli raids follow PM's warning Israel party votes to oust leader Israel's borders are unresolved 60 years after the state's creation. Obstacles to peace: Refugees Obstacles to peace: Water Obstacles to peace: Jerusalem History of failed peace talks Profile: Palestinian peace camp Profile: Israeli peace activism Palestinian rivals: Fatah & Hamas MIDDLE EAST STORIES New vow to spread Lebanon battle Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6720385.stm | South Asia | Army U-turn on Kashmir holy sites 4 June 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK U-turn on Kashmir holy sites Indian troops have been fighting militants for 18 years India's army has said it will no longer build or renovate Muslim shrines or mosques in Indian-administered Kashmir. The announcement came after clerics accused troops of interfering in the religious affairs of Muslims. Army corps commander Lt Gen AS Sekhon told reporters the intention had never been to interfere in religious matters or hurt any community's feelings. Troops have been fighting militants in Jammu and Kashmir, India's only Muslim-majority state, for 18 years. India accuses Pakistan of sponsoring the uprising - a charge Islamabad denies. Gen Sekhon was speaking near the summer capital, Srinagar, a week after a Muslim cleric in Indian-administered Kashmir issued an edict, or fatwa, saying only Muslims may carry out renovation work on holy sites. "It has never been our intention to interfere in the religious matters of any community," he told reporters. "We would not undertake anything that hurts the sentiments of any community." He said whatever renovation of shrines and mosques had been carried out had been done at the request of local people. India's army says it has spent more than $130,000 on the repair of Muslim holy sites in the region. The BBC's Altaf Hussain in Srinagar says the move is part of a campaign to win "hearts and minds". Under Operation Sadbhavna or Goodwill, they have also built schools and other facilities in the state's rural areas. A prominent human rights campaigner criticised the operation. "There is no point in building an odd school here and there when the troops have forcibly occupied a number of schools, hospitals and orchards across the valley," said Pervez Imroz, chairman of the Coalition of Civil Society (CCS). the India-Pakistan peace process back on track? History of a troubled road Where are Pakistan militants? Timeline: Steps to peace Who are the militants? Possible solutions to the deadlock between India and Pakistan - in maps How secure is peace process? Ministry of external affairs, India Ministry of foreign affairs, Pakistan SOUTH ASIA STORIES New controls on media in Pakistan Tribal group drops India protest Army U-turn on Kashmir holy sites family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6717485.stm | Africa | Ex-Liberia leader boycotts trial 4 June 2007, 17:51 GMT 18:51 UK leader boycotts trial Charles Taylor has denied all charges The war crimes trial of former Liberian President Charles Taylor has opened amid dramatic scenes in The Hague, with the accused refusing to attend. Mr Taylor said his trial would not be fair because he only had one defence lawyer. His counsel walked out, defying the judge's order to stay seated. Mr Taylor is accused of backing rebels in Sierra Leone who killed and maimed thousands of civilians over 11 years. It is the first case of its kind against a former African leader. Proceedings have been broadcast live on four giant screens in Sierra Leone's capital, Freetown. Yes. Let the proceedings begin! However, where are Taylor's accomplices? Do international courts work? Judge Julia Sebutinde ordered the trial to continue without Mr Taylor, amid intense protests from his lawyer, Karim Khan. Mr Khan then left the court, saying he was not in a position to represent his client without further instruction from him. After nearly one hour of wrangling, the prosecution began opening statements. Proceedings at the UN-backed Special Court for Sierra Leone are expected to last between a year and 18 months, and the UK has offered to imprison Mr Taylor if he is convicted. The former Liberian leader has been indicted on 11 charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity and violations of international humanitarian law over his alleged role in the brutal civil war in Sierra Leone. What people in Sierra Leone and Liberia think of the Taylor trial Mr Taylor denies them all. Human rights campaigners hope the trial will send a signal that nobody can escape punishment for atrocities, including heads of state, although some would have preferred him to have been tried at home by his countrymen. However fears that Mr Taylor may still be able to mobilise a militia to attack a court in Sierra Leone were among the reasons cited for the trial being moved away from West Africa. 'Not fit for purpose' Judge Sebutinde repeatedly pressed Mr Khan on the failure of his client to appear. "He has not thumbed his nose at the court," said Mr Khan before producing a letter in which Mr Taylor said he felt he would "not receive a fair trial at the Special Court at this time". Acts of terrorism (WC) Violence to life, in particular murder (WC) Sexual slavery and violence (CAH) Outrages upon personal dignity (WC) Violence to life, in particular cruel treatment (WC) Other inhumane acts (CAH) Use of child soldiers (VHL) Violation of international humanitarian law Taylor - the trial begins While appearing to accept the court's jurisdiction, he said it was not "fit for purpose". He added he would not appear until "adequate time and facilities are provided". "I cannot take part in this charade that does injustice to the people of Liberia and the people of Sierra Leone," he said in the letter. "I choose not to be a fig-leaf of legitimacy for this process." Should circumstances change, he said, "I stand ready to participate in such a trial and let justice be done and for those who have suffered far more than me in Liberia and Sierra Leone." The charges against Mr Taylor include terrorising the civilian population, murder, sexual violence, physical violence, using child soldiers, enslavement and looting. The BBC's David Bamford says the trial hinges on determining the degree to which Mr Taylor helped start, prolong and deepen the civil war in Sierra Leone. 1991: RUF rebellion starts in Sierra Leone 1995: Peace deal signed 1999: Liberia's Lurd rebels start insurrection to oust Taylor June 2003: Arrest warrant issued August 2003: Steps down, goes into exile in Nigeria Mr Taylor started Liberia's civil war in 1989 and became one of a number of warlords competing for control in the West African country. He later emerged as Liberia's most powerful politician and won the 1997 presidential election that ended the war there. Meanwhile in 1991, one of Mr Taylor's comrades-in-arms, Foday Sankoh, started his own rebellion in Sierra Leone. The prosecution claims Mr Taylor provided the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) leader with training, money, arms and ammunition to start the rebellion and even lent him fighters to take part in the initial attack. The RUF became notorious for hacking off the hands and legs of civilians during their decade-long war. It is alleged that Mr Taylor shared a common plan with the RUF's commanders to gain power and control over Sierra Leone, so he could gain access to its diamonds and have a government in Freetown that would support his aims. However, the rebellion in Sierra Leone collapsed. Its war crimes court indicted the rebel leaders and Mr Taylor as well. Mr Sankoh died in 2003. That year, Mr Taylor himself lost power in Liberia after rival militias rose up and forced him into exile in Nigeria. He was deported by Nigeria last year in controversial circumstances and flown to The Hague to await his trial. AND AUDIO NEWS A letter from Charles Taylor is read out in court A new stage in the world's efforts to bring crimes against humanity to book The charges against Taylor In pictures: Taylor in court Preacher, warlord and president Taylor's rise and fall Charles Taylor trial: Your views Taylor boycotts start of trial S Africa police clash with nurses Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/default.stm 4 June 2007, 19:18 GMT 20:18 UK condemns Russia's threat to aim weapons at Europe over the planned US missile defence shield. New era of discord Q&A: US missile defence Gorbachev criticises US 'empire' Seven Turks killed in rebel raid Kurdish rebels kill at least seven Turkish soldiers in a raid on a military outpost in eastern Turkey, officials say. A US military judge drops charges against a Canadian terror suspect at Guantanamo Bay, citing new laws. Ex-Liberia leader boycotts trial Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Vow to spread Lebanon battle China unveils climate change plan New controls on media in Pakistan Missing US soldiers' IDs on video ALSO IN THE NEWS Climbers recreate doomed Everest ascent in 1920s gear London unveils the logo for the 2012 Olympic Games Tennis: Nadal v Hewitt Football: Liverpool fans 'worst' Mixed views in Sierra Leone and Liberia to the Charles Taylor trial Six days of war, 40 years of conflict - the impact of 1967 Living in a toilet The Moroccan family blocked from going home - to a public loo VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Boot camp for China's budding hairdressers Putin makes nuclear threat Taylor refuses to attend trial China pledges to cut emissions More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Hilton starts jail sentence Amsterdam's nude photo shoot Putin makes nuclear threat Steve Jobs launches iPhone French Open: Nadal brushes off Hewitt Putin launches missile row AROUND THE WORLD NOW S Africa police clash with nurses Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 'US plot' pair in Trinidad court Colombian rebels spurn jail deal Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held Brussels cleaning 'fraud' probed Bosnia suspect attacks UN arrest Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog Tribal group drops India protest Army U-turn on Kashmir holy sites MORE FROM BBC NEWS FROM OUR OWN CORRESPONDENT Dutch courage in Brazil America's great faith divide Meeting the world's heaviest man The Big Donor Show may have been blunt but 'shocking' television is the only thing that seems to work Pole wakes up from 19-year coma Coach Woolmer 'was not murdered' Video released of BBC's Johnston UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' German drives down subway stairs Democrat presidential hopefuls try to stand out in crowded field Russia's new discord with the West is more than a passing phase Missing for 84 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6718965.stm | Europe | Seven Turks killed in rebel raid 4 June 2007, 16:08 GMT 17:08 UK Turks killed in rebel raid Kurdish separatist rebels killed at least seven Turkish soldiers when they opened fire on a military outpost in eastern Turkey, officials say. A rebel also died in Monday's attack in Pulumur, a town in the Tunceli area, the Turkish security sources said. The rebels drove a vehicle into the base and detonated a grenade. Seven soldiers were also injured. The raid was blamed on the banned Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which has been active in Tunceli before. The attack comes amid speculation Turkey may launch an incursion into Iraq to tackle Kurdish rebels following recent rebel operations inside Turkey. On Monday Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul told EU officials Turkey had "every right" to take action against the rebels. The latest violence is bound to fuel support for a military operation into northern Iraq, says the BBC's Sarah Rainsford, in Istanbul. Tunceli has long been known as a hotspot for PKK rebels The government has already said it would approve such an incursion if the military requested it, she says. Turkey blames the PKK for a recent suicide bombing in Ankara and a landmine attack on troops. The PKK has been fighting for an ethnic homeland since 1984. Turkey blames the group for 30,000 deaths since then. Kurdish sources say Turkish troops on Sunday shelled an area just inside northern Iraq, near the border. No casualties were reported. In the past Turkish forces have launched some cross-border raids to flush out PKK rebels. Turkey has urged US and Iraqi forces to crack down on the PKK bases in northern Iraq. Turkish officials are preparing to deliver a report to the UN calling for more co-operation against the PKK, a group the US and EU brand as terrorists. border tension grows 30 Turkish soldiers killed in blast 24 Turkish army chief wants Iraq op 12 Apr 07 | Europe Seven Turks killed in rebel raid Hague trial for Liberian ex-leader family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6719859.stm | Americas | 'US plot' pair in Trinidad court 4 June 2007, 15:54 GMT 16:54 UK plot' pair in Trinidad court Tight security was in place for the court hearing Two men held in Trinidad over an alleged plot to blow up New York's JFK airport will fight moves to extradite them to the US, their lawyer says. Kareem Ibrahim of Trinidad and Abdul Kadir of Guyana appeared in court in Port-of-Spain to hear the judge fix an extradition hearing for August. A third man is in custody in New York and a fourth man is sought in Trinidad. They are accused of conspiring to blow up fuel tanks and pipelines serving the airport, one of the world's busiest. Kareem Ibrahim and Abdul Kadir, a former Guyanese politician, made their initial court appearance to face one count each of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act against the government of the United States. "We will be opposing extradition," said Rajid Persad, their lawyer. See a map of the area The judge remanded them in custody until 11 June when a bail hearing was due and an extradition hearing was set for 2 August. US authorities said both men were associates of Jamaat al Muslimeen, a Muslim organisation behind a coup attempt in Trinidad in 1990. The group is not accused of offering them any support. The third suspect was arrested in Brooklyn late on Friday and named as Russell Defreitas, originally from Guyana. Mr Defreitas was arraigned in New York City on Saturday afternoon, but did not enter a plea. He is to be held pending a bail hearing on Wednesday, US prosecutors said. A fourth suspect, Abdel Nur of Guyana, is believed to be in Trinidad. The alleged plot - which is said not to have gone past the planning stages - involved blowing up the airport's fuel tanks and pipeline, US justice department officials said. The pipeline is 40 miles (64km) long and carries jet fuel from New Jersey and through the New York boroughs of Staten Island, Brooklyn and Queens. The pipeline serves two other airports in the area - LaGuardia and Newark Liberty. The alleged plot was brought to light when Mr Defreitas recruited an FBI informant to help him in the plan, US officials said. The men conducted surveillance of the airport, including videotaping their targets and downloading satellite images from the internet, according to officials. They said the informant had recorded some of the conversations he had had with Mr Defreitas. Click here to return on for NY airport 'bomb man' 03 Jun 07 | Americas Profile: Jamaat al Muslimeen 03 Jun 07 | Americas Arrests over US army base 'plot' 09 Three held over NY tunnel 'plot' 08 Jul 06 | Americas US fears home-grown terror threat 24 Jun 06 | Americas Country profile: United States of America 25 profiles US Department of Justice US soldiers' IDs on video 'US plot' pair in Trinidad court family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6715937.stm | Africa | Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 4 June 2007, 09:45 GMT 10:45 UK Leone air crash kills 19 The helicopter shuttle to the airport takes seven minutes A helicopter ferrying passengers to Freetown airport in Sierra Leone has crashed, killing 19 people, including Togo's Sports Minister Richard Attipoe. The passengers were returning from watching Togo beat Sierra Leone 1-0 in an African Nations Cup qualifier. One of the two Ukrainian pilots survived when the helicopter burst into flames as it came into land. Helicopters and ferries are the only way to reach the airport, which is located across a bay from Freetown. The Togolese passengers had chartered the helicopter for the seven-minute flight from the city to the airport. But none of the national football team was on board; they were waiting in Freetown for the next shuttle flight to the airport. The helicopter was operated by Paramount Airlines, and owned by a Nigerian businessman, according to an airline maintenance officer quoted by the AFP. The officer said that it caught fire as it was coming in to land at Lungi airport at about 2030 on Sunday. "There was an explosion on board the helicopter before it landed," said Donald Bull, general manager of the Sierra Leone Airport Authority. The Russian-made Mi-8 helicopter was consumed by the flames before airport fire crews could reach it. "From what we hear, most of the victims were burnt beyond recognition," said Chernor Ojuku Sesay of the Sierra Leone Football Association. The co-pilot has survived, but was reported to be in critical condition. The Togo players and officials of the team were the next group due to be ferried by the helicopter. Joseph Muller, one of the journalists within the Hawks' travelling party, said: "We are shocked at the death of our colleagues, it's unbelievable. Those who died included staff members of both the Togolose Sports Ministry and the Togo Football Federation as well as female journalist Olive Menzah. AND AUDIO NEWS Previous safety concerns over the aircrafts Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device 19 Dec 06 | Country profiles Country profile: Sierra Leone 16 profiles Taylor boycotts start of trial S Africa police clash with nurses Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6717767.stm | Asia-Pacific | Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held 4 June 2007, 06:27 GMT 07:27 UK Khmer Rouge trial talks held By Guy De Launey BBC News, Phnom Penh The judges have struggled to resolve their differences Judges for the long-awaited Khmer Rouge trials have begun an important meeting in Cambodia's capital, Phnom Penh. Local and international legal officials are hoping to agree on the ground rules for the special courts. The process has been delayed for more than six months because of disagreements among the judges. As many as two million people are thought to have died during the four years of Khmer Rouge government in the late 1970s. A packed hotel conference room was the venue for the opening ceremony of the judge's plenary session. The process of drafting and discussing the internal rules of procedure has taken too long Academics, human rights workers and veteran observers of the trials all squeezed in for the occasion. They were keenly aware that the next week of discussion could make or break the special courts. The problem is simple to explain but rather more difficult to solve. The courts are under Cambodian jurisdiction, but the UN-appointed legal officials have insisted that international standards of justice should apply. The legacy of the Khmer Rouge years hangs over Cambodia Allying those concerns while respecting local laws has been at the heart of the disagreements. There have been months of behind-the-scenes negotiations since the previous plenary session ended in disarray last November. Now the international judges, led by Dame Silvia Cartwright, say it is vital to move forward. "The process of drafting and discussing the internal rules of procedure has taken too long," she said. "We are hopeful that after the next week of work the final details of the rules will be put in place, and that the first stages of the trial process can begin." If an agreement is reached, then the prosecutors will pass on their files to the investigating judges. But some of the international officials have indicated they will quit if negotiations break down, and that could mean the end of the process. AND AUDIO NEWS Judges meet for the pre-trial talks Rocky road to Khmer Rouge trial 26 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific Khmer Rouge trials a step closer 28 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Talks to save Khmer Rouge trials 07 Mar 07 | Asia-Pacific Khmer Rouge trials 'obstructed' 06 Dec 06 | Asia-Pacific Officials mull Khmer Rouge trials 20 Nov 06 | Asia-Pacific Khmer Rouge court gets go-ahead 30 Apr 05 | Asia-Pacific Long wait for Killing Fields justice 05 Oct 04 | Asia-Pacific Key figures in the Khmer Rouge 17 Mar 03 | Asia-Pacific Pol Pot: Life of a tyrant 14 Apr 00 | Asia-Pacific unveils climate change plan Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6719655.stm | South Asia | Tribal group drops India protest 4 June 2007, 15:13 GMT 16:13 UK group drops India protest Protesters blocked entry points into Delhi on Monday Leaders of an Indian tribal group have called off protests over affirmative action policy after the authorities agreed to look into their demands. Gujjar community leaders met Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje Scindia on Monday after a week of clashes in the state left at least 23 people dead. Ms Raje said that an inquiry panel would look into the Gujjars' demands and report back within three months. Gujjar community members want access to government jobs and other benefits. On Monday, hundreds of Gujjars blocked main roads into the capital, Delhi, as the protests spread from Rajasthan, where the unrest started. The decision to end protests came after Rajasthan's chief minister met Gujjar leader KS Bainsla in the state capital, Jaipur. We are ending our protests - we have got the results that we wanted Gujjar leader KS Bainsla Grief of the Gujjars Afterwards, Ms Raje told a joint news conference that a panel headed by a retired judge would look into the Gujjars' demands... "and will submit its report in three months". "The Gujjars have decided to call off their campaign." Mr Bainsla said: "We have got whatever we have been demanding." Several earlier rounds of negotiations had failed to break the deadlock as violence worsened. Monday's protests saw vehicles set on fire on roads leading into Delhi, with much disruption to commuters and traffic. Some trains on their way to Delhi were halted or diverted. Paramilitary troops and extra policemen were deployed in force and there were many arrests. In the suburb of Ghitorni, police fired tear gas to disperse a stone-throwing mob. Violent protests started last Tuesday in Dausa district in Rajasthan when police fired on Gujjar protesters blocking the road between Jaipur and Agra where the Taj Mahal is located. Over the next few days, the unrest spread across the state. The Gujjars - a large and politically influential nomadic tribe spread across north India - want to be categorised as an official tribe to benefit from affirmative action quotas which will give them access to government jobs as well as places in state-supported schools and colleges. Gujjars are a large and politically influential tribe Members of the rival Meena tribe in Rajasthan, who at present corner most of the quota benefits, have threatened their own protests if Gujjar demands are met. Gujjars comprise about 6% and Meenas 10% of Rajasthan's 56 million people. The issue of affirmative action is a sensitive one in India, with many poor communities arguing that it is the only way millions of under-privileged people can benefit from India's economic boom. But those opposed to it say it is a cynical move by politicians to gain more votes from politically influential communities who make up a large percentage of the country's population. AND AUDIO NEWS Scenes from the Gujjar protests Why the Gujjars are so aggrieved 31 Asia Despair of the discriminated Dalits 05 Dec 06 | South Asia India's colleges confront quotas 25 Aug 06 | South Asia Indian court upholds caste quotas 19 Oct 06 | South Asia Furore reflects India's caste complexities 20 May 06 | South Asia Rise of the untouchables 20 Feb 02 | South Asia Religion and Ethics - Hinduism SOUTH ASIA STORIES New controls on media in Pakistan Tribal group drops India protest Army U-turn on Kashmir holy sites family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6719231.stm | Middle East | New vow to spread Lebanon battle 4 June 2007, 19:03 GMT 20:03 UK vow to spread Lebanon battle The Lebanese army has sent reinforcements to Ain al-Hilweh A commander of the Palestinian militant group battling Lebanese troops from a northern refugee camp has reportedly pledged to escalate the conflict. Abu Hureira, a senior Fatah al-Islam figure, told Associated Press his group was ready to take up arms in Lebanon's largest refugee camp, near Sidon. Earlier, two Lebanese soldiers were killed in that camp, Ain al-Hilweh, in fighting with another militant group. Separately, a bomb exploded on a bus in Beirut, injuring seven people. More than 100 civilians, militants and troops have died in the fighting at the two Palestinian refugee camps in the past two weeks. The fighting in Ain al-Hilweh involved militants from the Jund al-Sham group, a Palestinian splinter group similar to Fatah al-Islam. We will start to see an expansion, and there will be a similar military situation there [in Ain el-Hilweh] The two groups reportedly have family ties and share a radical Islamist ideology. However, Abu Hureira told AP that the deaths in Ain al-Hilweh were not linked to Fatah al-Islam's battle in the Nahr al-Bared camp, close to Tripoli in Lebanon's far north. Jund al-Sham was "not fighting on our behalf", he said, but would not say how many members of Fatah al-Islam were based in Ain al-Hilweh. "Soon there will be an official statement in the name of Fatah al-Islam partisans, and we will start to see an expansion, and there will be a similar military situation there [in Ain el-Hilweh]," he said. It seems likely that neither group regards what happens in Lebanon as their priority, says the BBC's Middle East analyst Roger Hardy. Like jihadi groups elsewhere, he says, they see themselves as part of the much bigger battle between Islam and the West. A bomb exploded on an empty bus in a Christian district of the capital Beirut, injuring seven passers-by, security officials said. Lebanese television showed pictures of the blackened shell of the bus next to damaged cars and shop fronts. There has been a series of bomb attacks in and around Beirut since fighting began at the Nahr al-Bared camp on 20 May. In addition to the two dead in the Ain al-Hilweh fighting, at least five troops were reported wounded. There has been no word on militant casualties. Violence subsided after the initial exchange of fire close to the camp's entrance. One report said Palestinian factions held emergency talks with the Lebanese army to calm tensions. The Lebanese army has already sent reinforcements to the edge of the camp. In Nahr al-Bared, the army has been shelling militant positions deep within the besieged camp to try to force the militants to surrender. Clashes there continued overnight on Sunday, but subsided somewhat during Monday, reports said. Prime Minister Fouad Siniora has described Fatah al-Islam as a "terrorist gang" and said there would be no negotiations. A militant spokesman said they would fight to "the last drop of blood". The army has said it has not entered the Nahr al-Bared camp. There is a longstanding convention that the army does not enter Lebanon's 12 Palestinian refugee camps, leaving security inside to militant groups. Civilians in the camp have no access to power or medical help. Tens of thousands are thought to have fled the camp since fighting broke out, but thousands reportedly remain. Aid agencies have called for a ceasefire to allow more civilians to leave. But correspondents say the government and army appear in no mood to end the siege now. The violence is the worst internal fighting Lebanon has seen since the end of its civil war 17 years ago. Lebanon is home to more than 350,000 Palestinian refugees, many of whom fled or were forced to leave their homes when Israel was created in 1948. charges 20 over fighting 30 East Lebanon army 'hit by militants' 28 East Analysis: Lebanon's new flashpoint 23 East The Lebanese crisis explained 22 East 21 East TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES New vow to spread Lebanon battle Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6719799.stm | Middle East | Missing US soldiers' IDs on video 4 June 2007, 19:17 GMT 20:17 UK US soldiers' IDs on video The Pentagon has said the ID cards appear to be genuine Militants in Iraq have produced a video apparently showing the ID cards of two missing US soldiers and suggesting both may have been killed in captivity. US TV networks showed pictures from a video apparently made by the Islamic State of Iraq, an umbrella group which says it has the two soldiers. The two soldiers, Specialist Alex Jimenez, 25, and Private Byron Fouty, 19, were seized in an ambush on 12 May. The body of a third captured soldier was later found in the River Euphrates. There were no still images or identifiable video footage of the two soldiers on the militant video, ABC News and CNN reported. Instead, the film concludes with pictures of personal effects said to belong to the missing soldiers, including credit cards, a cross and cash, CNN said. In a voiceover accompanying the 10 minutes of video footage, an unidentified Arabic-speaking narrator was heard to say that the two soldiers had been killed because the US continues to search for them. We have been expecting this, knowing that it is a scare tactic by insurgent groups "Fearing the occupying army will continue its searches, harming our Muslim brothers, [the Islamic State of Iraq] decided to settle the matter and announced the news of their killing to cause bitterness to God's enemies," the narrator said. The Pentagon said the images of the two ID cards did appear to be genuine. But an official statement said the footage contained "no definitive evidence" about whether the pair were still alive. "We continue to search and hope that our two missing soldiers will be found alive and in good health," Brig Gen Kevin Bergner said. The Islamic State of Iraq is an umbrella group which includes al-Qaeda in Iraq, the organisation suspected by the US of seizing the soldiers. The SITE Institute, a Washington-based organisation that monitors Islamist and insurgent web output, obtained the video and distributed it to news organisations. The 10-minute film is said to be mainly made up of footage of an apparent night-time attack, and archive footage from al-Jazeera TV. A US military spokesman told the AFP news agency the release of a video had been anticipated since the soldiers capture. "Ever since the first statement by the Islamic State of Iraq that if we wanted to see the soldiers alive we should stop looking, we have been expecting this, knowing that it's a scare tactic by insurgent groups," Lt Col Chris Garver said. The US has offered rewards of up to $200,000 (£100,000) for the safe return of the two men. STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ Fourteen US troops killed in Iraq Rival Sunni groups clash in Iraq US Iraq embassy plans put on net Court hears Haditha death details Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Major policy groups are doubtful about the success of the US military strategy. Democrats' war funding dilemma Iraq's war reaches the arts world Students brave the bombs Baghdad: Mapping the violence Iraq violence, in figures Baker's sweet smell of success Your views: Iraq four years on TV reports on Iraq MIDDLE EAST STORIES New vow to spread Lebanon battle Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6720315.stm | Americas | Guantanamo Canadian case dropped 4 June 2007, 18:02 GMT 19:02 UK Canadian case dropped Mr Khadr was reportedly taken to Afghanistan at the age of 10 A US military judge has dropped charges against a Canadian held at Guantanamo Bay, saying he could not be tried under new laws governing military tribunals. Omar Khadr was just 15 years old when he was captured in Afghanistan. He appeared in court charged with murder, attempted murder, conspiracy and providing support for terrorism. But the judge ruled he could not be tried under current laws because he was not classified as an "unlawful" enemy combatant in previous hearings. The charges were dismissed "without prejudice", said Col Peter Brownback, the presiding judge. His decision deals a big blow to the trial system, says the BBC's Justin Webb, in Washington. Mr Khadr had been classified as an "enemy combatant" under a previous tribunal system that was eventually thrown out in 2006 by the US Supreme Court. We don't need any more evidence that it's a failure This system should just stop But under new legislation approved by President George W Bush, only detainees classified as "unlawful enemy combatants" can face trial at Guantanamo Bay. The defendant appeared in court on Monday wearing a prison uniform, light sandals and a straggly beard, reports said. He is accused of killing a US soldier during a battle at a suspected al-Qaeda base in 2002. The judge left open the possibility that Mr Khadr could be re-charged if he appeared before an official review panel and was formally classified as an "unlawful" enemy combatant. He said prosecutors could lodge an appeal within 72 hours, although it was not immediately clear who they could appeal to. The word "unlawful" has not been used in any of the other pending cases, so it looks as though the whole tribunal system will once again come to a juddering halt, our correspondent says. Marine Col Dwight Sullivan, chief defence lawyer for the Guantanamo Bay trials, agreed that the latest verdict cast doubt on the entire system. "We don't need any more evidence that it's a failure. This system should just stop," he told the Reuters news agency. Saudi 'kills himself' Lawyer faces jail term US detainee 'mentally tortured' Court rejects Guantanamo test KS Mohammed's '31 plots' The 14 key detainees Black hole or vital tool? Paul Reynolds looks at the issues surrounding the camp five years on How the camp has evolved New rules of treatment UN report in full (337k) Missing US soldiers' IDs on video 'US plot' pair in Trinidad court family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6717881.stm | Paris Hilton starts jail sentence 4 June 2007, 07:26 GMT 08:26 UK Hilton starts jail sentence Paris Hilton has begun her jail sentence for violating probation on a drink-driving conviction. The 26-year-old turned herself in to authorities at Los Angeles County Jail on Sunday, her lawyer confirmed. She appeared at the MTV Movie Awards hours earlier, where she told reporters: "I'm definitely scared, but I'm ready to face my sentence." The socialite will serve only half of her sentence - about 23 days - after being given credit for good behaviour. She will be separated from the main prison population in a block that contains 12 cells, each holding two people. I'm going to do the time and I am going to do it the right way It is reserved for celebrities, public officials, police officers and other high-profile inmates. The unit is part of the Century Regional Detention Centre in Lynwood, California, which holds more than 2,000 prisoners. The heiress-turned-pop singer was arrested for driving under the influence last September and was issued probation, which she violated several times by driving with a suspended licence. Hilton made her final public appearance at the MTV Movie Awards on Sunday, where host Sarah Silverman received cheers for mentioning her impending jail sentence. "Even though this is a really hard time, I have my family, my friends and my fans to support me, and that's really helpful," Hilton told reporters. The heiress said she had been given the option of going to a "pay jail" but declined. "I'm going to do the time and I am going to do it the right way. "I'm using it in a positive way and when I come out, I can't wait to start my new life and be even stronger than I am now." Pirates wins at MTV Awards 04 Jun 07 | Entertainment Paris Hilton drops prison appeal 18 Hilton 'good behaviour' cuts term 17 Paris 'ready to face punishment' 10 Hilton backs online pardon appeal 09 Paris Hilton gets 45 days in jail 05 Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Dannii to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6718645.stm | Asia-Pacific | Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' 4 June 2007, 10:57 GMT 11:57 UK gangs 'behind fake drugs' Anti-malarial drugs are vital in Asia and other parts of the world Trans-national ethnic Chinese gangs are behind the growing trade in counterfeit anti-malarial drugs in South East Asia, the BBC has been told. John Newton, a senior investigator with Interpol, said counterfeits are now starting to appear in Africa too. He said the gangs involved organised criminals working across national boundaries and faking the drugs on an industrial scale. He described them as businessmen with a sophisticated network of conspirators. In some cases, fake drugs operations are run alongside trade in fake credit cards, weapons and narcotics, he said. The gangs are close-knit and hard to penetrate. "The common denominator is that they are ethnic Chinese," said Mr Newton, a senior investigator and specialist in counterfeiting with the international police force. "By that, what I mean is that they may be Malaysians, they may be from the People's Republic of China or Myanmar, the former Burma. "Because they know each other, they're very difficult to infiltrate. They have established networks in the various countries. They're able to exchange and distribute the product. And that makes it very difficult for us to counter," he said. The fakes are increasingly sophisticated. That, plus the scale of production, suggests a large investment by the criminals. International health officials warn that anti-malarial drugs are just the tip of the iceberg. There is also growing concern about fake antibiotics and fake anti-retrovirals used to treat HIV/Aids, and even fake versions of the drugs used to treat avian flu. The profits are huge. The UN said that within a few years, global sales of fake drugs could be worth $75bn a year. Are you worried about the growing trade in counterfeit medicine? Have you ever been sold fake drugs? If you have any information you would like to share with the BBC you can do so using the form below: The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. warns of 'lethal' fake drugs 01 Mar 07 | Europe China's drastic solution to drugs scandal 30 China tightens net on fake drugs 09 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific Shanghai Securities News (in Chinese) unveils climate change plan Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6713303.stm | Americas | Colombian rebels spurn jail deal 4 June 2007, 12:31 GMT 13:31 UK rebels spurn jail deal Farc prisoners began being moved to holding centres on Friday Colombia's biggest rebel group insists it will not release any hostages even though the government has announced plans to free some 200 jailed rebels. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or Farc, said the gesture by President Alvaro Uribe was a "farce". A Farc statement said the government must first create a safe haven for talks - a move Mr Uribe has ruled out. Hopes had risen that there could be a breakthrough leading to the release of some of the 56 hostages in rebel hands. But in a statement published on a rebel website, the Farc guerrillas left no room for doubt about their position. They reiterated their demand for a demilitarised zone as a condition for any talks on freeing hostages. "The demagogic announcement of a unilateral release of prisoners has nothing to do with an exchange, which must be reached with an accord with the government," the statement said. The plan was merely an attempt by the president to divert attention from a scandal linking some of his political allies to illegal paramilitary groups, the statement said. The guerrillas said many of the prisoners that the government is planning to free are Farc deserters or civilians mistaken for rebels. President Uribe has said he will go ahead with what he calls a unilateral goodwill gesture and free up to 200 jailed rebels. Pressure to secure the hostages' release has grown in recent weeks after a police officer escaped from nine years in captivity. He emerged to give details about how some of the other people were being held and treated by the rebels. The latest Farc announcement is a blow to the families of the hostages, who include three Americans and prominent French-Colombian politician Ingrid Betancourt. Some of the captives have been held for several years in brutal conditions deep in the Amazon jungle and the prospects for their release seem as distant as ever, says the BBC's Jeremy McDermott in Medellin. groups and issues behind the country's four decades of civil conflict Conflict colours regional ties US weighs costs of Plan Colombia 'Silenced by the gun' US policy and Latin America President Alvaro Uribe Velez Quick guide to the conflict Colombian presidency (in Spanish) US soldiers' IDs on video 'US plot' pair in Trinidad court family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6720459.stm | Europe | Brussels cleaning 'fraud' probed 4 June 2007, 16:53 GMT 17:53 UK cleaning 'fraud' probed The allegations come three months after another scandal over contracts Investigators are studying claims that European Commission cleaning contracts were faked in a four-year fraud potentially worth millions of euros. The probe is headed by the Brussels prosecutor and the EU anti-fraud unit, Olaf, which said contracts may have been "executed in an irregular manner". Olaf said the investigation was focusing on individuals and companies outside the EU institutions However, media reports suggested bureaucrats had also been involved. "The financial impact of the suspected irregularities cannot be assessed at this stage," Olaf spokesman Alessandro Buttice said in a statement. "The total volume of the contract in question is 44m euros ($59m; £30m) covering a period between 2003 and 2007. "As the cleaning services have in fact been rendered, any potential damage could only amount to a fraction of this." Commission spokesman Maximilian Strotmann said it was unclear how much money was involved. Olaf launched its investigation in 2005 and referred the case to the Belgian federal prosecutor on 1 March. Belgian media alleged that European Commission employees had provided false contracts for cleaning services never carried out. Saturday's Le Soir newspaper said the whistle was blown by an accountant with the cleaning company who was fired after he pointed out that figures did not tally with work carried out by the firm. Olaf said it launched its investigation on the basis of information received from the European Commission and from external sources. The allegations come three months after three Italians, including a European Commission official, were arrested in a case of suspected corruption involving tenders of building contracts. talks 'resume in June' EU urged to relax farm feed rules New EU chemical law takes effect A guide to the EU's 'Reach' law on chemicals Brussels' quest for the green car EU attacked for 'inefficient' aid Sarkozy excites and worries EU EU fails to excite Bulgarians Mark Mardell on the US plan to bring its missile shield to Europe THE UK AND EUROPE UK beach hygiene hailed in report Migrants 'want to settle in UK' A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future Seven Turks killed in rebel raid Hague trial for Liberian ex-leader family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
