http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/politics/31thompson.html Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run Ann Johansson for Senator Fred D. Thompson will begin raising money for a campaign for the Republican nomination. May 30 — Former Senator of Tennessee has taken new steps that make it clear that he is likely to run for the White House, potentially shaking up a field of candidates that has failed to strike a chord with the Republican base. His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. Ann Johansson for Senator Fred Thompson greeted Boy Scouts after speaking in California to the Lincoln Club of Orange County on May 4. Mr. Thompson is creating a committee that will let him begin raising money on Monday toward a full-blown national campaign, advisers said Wednesday. They hope his name recognition as an actor and radio commentator, conservative stands on issues like and government spending, and strength in the South will differentiate him from the current crop of candidates. The disclosure of his intensifying activities sent ripples through the party, with the campaigns of two of the main Republican candidates checking with their deputies in Iowa and New Hampshire to monitor any hiring or fund-raising efforts by Mr. Thompson, 64. One campaign held a brief strategy session to review poll results on Mr. Thompson, and found him well-positioned even as an unannounced candidate. His moves come as have failed to coalesce around a candidate, as they struggle with the war in Iraq, President Bush’s unpopularity and questions about the party’s ideological direction. That has created a potential opening in a campaign field that, judging by polls and other reaction, has left Republican voters wanting more. “Thompson is a credible conservative, he has a strong voting record, he has strong, almost Reagan-esque communication skills,” said Scott Reed, who managed the presidential campaign of the Republican in 1996 and is unaffiliated with any campaigns. “And like Reagan, he believes in an ideological agenda in an undiluted way. He doesn’t have a bunch of qualifiers on things when he defends the Reagan years.” In a conference call on Tuesday, 75 to 100 Republicans who had offered to back the politician better known for his acting career were urged to raise roughly $50,000 each for the financial underpinnings of a Thompson bid that has been in the making for months. Five people closely involved in the emerging campaign discussed the plans in interviews Wednesday but asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to talk publicly about the details. Participants on the call said Mr. Thompson was enthusiastic about becoming an alternative to current contenders led by former Mayor of New York, Senator of Arizona and former Gov. of Massachusetts. They said he was not ready to formally announce without evidence that he could draw the necessary financial support. “You have to raise money to be competitive even if you are Fred Thompson,” said Representative Zach Wamp, a Tennessee Republican who has led an effort to draft Mr. Thompson. In another development on Wednesday, Mr. Thompson asked to be released from his role on “Law & Order” on NBC, The Associated Press reported. The show’s executive producer, Dick Wolf, said Mr. Thompson had told him that he “has not made a firm decision about his political future” but that he was concerned about “the creative and scheduling constraints of the upcoming season.” By joining the race late, Mr. Thompson may face questions about his ability to compete against the top-tier Republican candidates who have already raised at least $10 million each. He will also not participate in the Republican debate in New Hampshire on Tuesday. Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster and strategist who is not working for any candidate, said he was “surprised and a little sad” that Mr. Thompson had not declared himself a full-fledged candidate. Mr. Thompson has faced questions about his political commitment stemming from his days in the Senate. “Thompson will be competing against three guys who have been running flat out for months and working their tails off for well over a year,” Mr. Fabrizio said. “If you’re not going to get in this race and double-time on work, effort and commitment, how do you expect to win? You need to send signals that say, ‘I’m here and I’m going to win.’ “ Although Mr. Thompson planned in the coming days to create what is known as a “testing the waters” committee that would allow him to raise and spend money, members of Mr. Thompson’s inner circle said that if the next few weeks were encouraging, he could officially enter the race as early as July. “Fred Thompson is doing everything he has to do to gauge support to come to a final decision in a timely manner,” said Mark Corallo, who has been acting as his spokesman. The intense interest in Mr. Thompson’s trajectory reflected concern in the rival Republican camps about his possible appeal across the South, among conservative and evangelical voters, who might be attracted to his mainstream conservative stances, like opposition to and strong support for states’ rights. “There are still a lot of undecided voters in South Carolina, and Fred Thompson comes with enormous appeal — I’d call it -like appeal,” said Katon Dawson, the chairman of the Republican Party in South Carolina, which holds one of the first presidential primaries. Allies of Mr. Thompson said they were confident he would attract big-name contributors and present and former office holders now supporting other candidates. But potential competitors questioned his ability to make such inroads. Kate Phillips contributed reporting. &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. Faults &#8217;86 Law on Immigrants Ex-Senator Seen as Rehearsing for Prime Time G.O.P. All Ears as Ex-Senator Weighs Bid Presidential Election of 2008 &#x00bb; ON LESS THAN YOU THINK
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/nyregion/31liquor.html Commuters&#8217; Estrin/The relax on a 5:26 p.m. Metro-North train to Bridgeport, Conn., one of few with a dedicated bar car. city banned cigarettes in bars, and the smokers trooped out to the sidewalk. Trans fats in restaurants were next, and the French fry addicts mostly shrugged. But since the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced that it was considering banning alcohol on commuter trains, it has been a different story. Estrin/The buy beer and soft drinks at Grand Central Terminal. Bankers and brokers and blue-collar workers spoke out in defense of the tradition of a Scotch and soda or a cold Budweiser on the ride home to Huntington or Greenwich. And the authority listened. Faced with an overwhelmingly negative response to the proposed ban, a committee of the authority’s board has recommended that the cocktail hour be allowed to continue on the trains and platforms of Metro-North railroads, according to a member of the committee and two people briefed on its findings. The full board is expected to take up the issue next month, and appears likely to follow the recommendation. The panel, which has been meeting for the last few months, received a thick sheaf of petitions signed by what officials estimated were thousands of commuters. And it met with representatives of rider groups who wanted to retain the end-of-day ritual. “It’s one of the things that makes this slog north or east palatable,” said Richard Shea, a public relations executive who helped start a group called Commuters Allied for Responsible Enjoyment, to defend what he described as “the romantic ideal” of the suburban commuter enjoying a drink on the way home — in his case, a Bud Light on the 6:52 to Chappaqua, in Westchester County. Mr. Shea encouraged fellow passengers to write to authority board members, urging them to block the proposal. At Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal yesterday, as riders stocked up on chardonnay and Bass ale for the trip home, many could not resist casting the issue in terms that went far beyond one evening’s round of beers. “People don’t like to have eyes over their shoulders 24/7,” said John Carnival, 43, an operating engineer from Massapequa Park, on Long Island, who bought two cans of Budweiser, packed in a plastic bag with ice, from a bar cart at Penn Station. He called the proposed ban “a little too much Big Brother.” Liquor service on commuter rail is a vestige of earlier days. Peter Derrick, a transit historian, said the commuter lines were modeled after interstate railroads, on which alcohol was a traditional amenity. Uniformed bartenders employed by Metro-North sell beer, wine, hard liquor, sodas and snacks from carts stationed near platforms at Grand Central Terminal on weekdays, beginning shortly after noon. The Long Island Railroad has carts staffed by bartenders on the platforms at Pennsylvania Station, and at the Hunterspoint Avenue, Jamaica and Flatbush Avenue stations, beginning about 3 p.m. During the evening rush, bartenders wheel their carts onto two Long Island-bound trains leaving Penn Station and sell alcohol to passengers during the trip. On Friday afternoons in the summer, sells alcohol from carts on the Cannonball, a train that travels from Hunterspoint to Montauk, carrying weekenders to the Hamptons. The only full-fledged bar cars that remain are on Metro-North’s New Haven line, and are run in cooperation with the State of Connecticut. On a typical weekday, 17 trains leaving Grand Central for cities like Stamford and Bridgeport from 12:07 p.m. to 9:07 p.m. include a bar car. The authority first agreed to consider a halt to alcohol sales on commuter trains and in rail stations in December, at the urging of Mitchell H. Pally, a board member from Long Island. Mr. Pally said he was concerned that passengers would drink on the train and then drive home, creating a liability for the authority if they became involved in an accident. He also said he worried that rowdy drinkers might be disturbing other passengers. A committee of five board members was created shortly afterward to study the idea. But data provided by the authority’s Police Department does not indicate widespread problems stemming from the sale of alcohol by the railroads. The police issued 287 tickets on Metro-North lines last year to people on trains or in stations who were drinking alcohol and creating a disturbance. Far more prevalent, the police said, were instances of people on commuter lines who needed medical help because of extreme drunkenness. There were 994 such cases on the two railroads last year, but officials said that in virtually every case, the riders appeared to have done most or all of their drinking before they ever got on a train. Each year, the railroad bartenders rank high in a customer satisfaction survey of Metro-North riders. In 2006, they received a favorable review from 97 percent of riders, who rated their courtesy and responsiveness second only to that of conductors, who scored 98 percent. Gene Colonese, the rail administrator for the Connecticut Transportation Department, said that an official from the department in April and strongly urged it not to change the policy, saying alcohol sales were “a valuable service to our customers.” The committee also of the two railroads, conductors and a representative of the authority’s police force, which patrols the commuter trains and stations. “There was no overwhelming evidence of drunkenness or anything like that, or accidents,” the board member said. He said the only person who to speak in favor of the ban was Mr. Pally. The committee finished its work earlier this month and submitted a report to Peter Kalikow, the authority’s chairman, and Elliot G. Sander, the chief executive and executive director. Mr. Kalikow and Mr. Sander declined to be interviewed about the committee’s recommendation. Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting. York Region (1 of 24) the 'Roadie' Rell's Budget Raises Gas Tax to Improve Roads TRANSIT PROJECTS ARE PUT IN DOUBT BY PATAKI BUDGET Aboard Bar Car, Some Riders Fear Last Call Is Near; A Fight Stirs on Metro-North York Region (1 of 24) &#x00bb; off Times delivery. NYT Ortelius Maps Edition -- America
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/washington/31scotus.html Oral 30 &#151; Whatever else may be said about the Supreme Court&#8217;s current term, which ends in about a month, it will be remembered as the time when Justice found her voice, and used it. two recent cases, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg read forceful dissents. Justices’ Topics: The Supreme Court case the court decided last month and the discrimination ruling it issued on Tuesday, Justice Ginsburg read forceful dissents from the bench. In each case, she spoke not only for herself but also for three other dissenting colleagues, Justices But the words were clearly her own, and they were both passionate and pointed. In the abortion case, in which the court upheld the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act seven years after having struck down a similar state law, she noted that the court was now &#8220;differently composed than it was when we last considered a restrictive abortion regulation.&#8221; In the latest case, she summoned Congress to overturn what she called the majority&#8217;s &#8220;parsimonious reading&#8221; of the federal law against discrimination in the workplace. To read a dissent aloud is an act of theater that justices use to convey their view that the majority is not only mistaken, but profoundly wrong. It happens just a handful of times a year. Justice has used the technique to powerful effect, as has Justice Stevens, in a decidedly more low-key manner. The oral dissent has not been, until now, Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s style. She has gone years without delivering one, and never before in her 15 years on the court has she delivered two in one term. In her past dissents, both oral and written, she has been reluctant to breach the court&#8217;s collegial norms. &#8220;What she is saying is that this is not law, it&#8217;s politics,&#8221; Pamela S. Karlan, a Stanford law professor, said of Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s comment linking the outcome in the abortion case to the fact of the court&#8217;s changed membership. &#8220;She is accusing the other side of making political claims, not legal claims.&#8221; The justice&#8217;s acquaintances have watched with great interest what some depict as a late-career transformation. &#8220;Her style has always been very ameliorative, very conscious of etiquette,&#8221; said Cynthia Fuchs Epstein, the sociologist and a longtime friend. &#8220;She has always been regarded as sort of a white-glove person, and she&#8217;s achieved a lot that way. Now she is seeing that basic issues she&#8217;s fought so hard for are in jeopardy, and she is less bound by what have been the conventions of the court.&#8221; Some might say her dissents are an expression of sour grapes over being in the minority more often than not. But there may be strategic judgment, as well as frustration, behind Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s new style. She may have concluded that quiet collegiality has proved futile and that her new colleagues, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. Samuel A. Alito Jr. , are not open to persuasion on the issues that matter most to her. Justice Alito, of course, took the place of Justice , with whom Justice Ginsburg formed a deep emotional bond, although they differed on a variety of issues. And Chief Justice Roberts succeeded Chief Justice , with whom Justice Ginsburg often disagreed but maintained a relationship that was at times surprisingly productive. For example, in 1996, over Justice Scalia&#8217;s vigorous dissent, the chief justice gave Justice Ginsburg his vote in a decision holding that the &#8217;s men-only admissions policy was unconstitutional. In 2003, they made common cause in a case that strengthened the Family and Medical Leave Act. When Justice Ginsburg criticized a Rehnquist opinion, she did so gently; today&#8217;s adversary could be tomorrow&#8217;s ally. If there has been any such meeting of the minds between Justice Ginsburg and her new colleagues, it has not been evident. She may have concluded that her side&#8217;s interests are better served by appealing not to the court&#8217;s majority but to the public. &#8220;She&#8217;s sounding an alarm and wants people to take notice,&#8221; said Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, an advocacy group that focuses on the workplace. Goodwin Liu, a law professor at the , Berkeley, was one of Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s law clerks when the court decided the 2000 election case, the bitterly divided Bush v. Gore decision, from which she dissented. Even during that freighted period, Professor Liu said, &#8220;I was struck by how much of an institutional citizen she was, how attuned to the wishes of her colleagues and to not giving offense.&#8221; Professor Liu said that when he read the dissent on Tuesday, it occurred to him that in recounting the workplace travails of the plaintiff, Lilly M. Ledbetter, Justice Ginsburg was also telling a version of her own story. &#8220;Here she is, the one woman of a nine-member body, describing the get-along imperative and the desire not to make waves felt by the one woman among 16 men,&#8221; Professor Liu said. &#8220;It&#8217;s as if after 15 years on the court, she&#8217;s finally voicing some complaints of her own.&#8221; Another of the justice&#8217;s friends, Prof. Judith Resnik of Yale Law School, noted that throughout her legal career, Justice Ginsburg has been deeply concerned about questions of access to the courts and the remedial powers of federal judges, themes she has explored in both majority and dissenting opinions. &#8220;Those of us reading not just the grand-slam cases but the quieter ones have heard her voice,&#8221; Professor Resnik said. She added, &#8220;Now that the stakes are going up, more people will be listening.&#8221; &#x00bb; Gain access to The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect Court Ruling Limits State Control of Big Banks Justices Hear Arguments About Pacts On Pricing Government Urges Supreme Court to Stay Out of Times Case Supreme Court Opens Term With Short Session &#x00bb; Amazin's," 80-page Commemorative Newspaper and Box
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/middleeast/31palestinians.html?ex=1338264000&en=330a931c3e4ddfb9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss May 30 — It was 2 a.m. when masked gunmen raided Al Wafa Net in the Khan Yunis camp in Gaza where 17 young men were surfing the Internet. Islamic militant posed this week in a Palestinian Ain al Hilwe. al Hilwe became a jihadi hotbed about five years ago. More than 25 men from there alone have gone to Iraq to fight, Hamas and Fatah officials say, never to be seen again. “The gunmen tied their hands, then forced them to stand at the stairs while they broke all the screens, and then the server and the television and the photocopier,” said the owner, Hamad, of the attack a few months ago. “Then they burned all 36 computers.” In recent months in Gaza, there have been similar attacks on music and video shops and pharmacies accused of selling Viagra, as well as on American and A standoff between the Lebanese Army and Islamists at a Palestinian has focused attention on a jihadist element taking root there as well as a radicalization themselves. With the fragmentation of authority in Gaza, and its isolation, said a Gazan analyst, Taysir Mhaisin, “there is an increase of fundamentalism and the birth of groups believing in violence and practicing violence as a model created by bin Ladenism.” Mouin Rabbani, a Jordan-based analyst of Palestinian politics for the International Crisis Group, said, “There is a security vacuum that creates space for all kinds of new grouplets and forces.” Palestinian authority, both and in refugee beyond, used to lie in the hands of Fatah, the nationalist faction once led by . But after the entry of militant into politics, its 2006 electoral defeat of Fatah and the battles between them, jihadi freelancers with murky links are filling a vacuum in Gaza and in the camps in Lebanon. Bush administration officials say they are increasingly concerned that Hamas and even more radical groups may be hijacking the Palestinian movement. The officials say they see no operational connection between what is happening in Palestinian the deterioration in Gaza. But they say they do see an ideological link, with hopeless and marginalized young people turning to jihad because they believe that more secular or moderate options have failed them. In the squalid streets of the Ain al Hilwe refugee camp outside the southern Lebanese city of Sidon, people like Abu Ahmed Taha are bracing for a fight they have long been dreading. Militias in the camp of 47,000 roam the streets armed and ready; skirmishes break out sporadically and tensions have never been higher. For Mr. Taha, the real danger is that the fastest-growing militias are those of jihadis with wholly different aspirations from his. “There is a central problem and that is , and they are spreading,” Mr. Taha said, after an emergency meeting of religious and political leaders in the camp last week to calm tensions. “The Islamic awakening has been going on for 25 years now. But this, now, is going to become a huge problem for us.” Mr. Taha’s fears are remarkable because of who he is: not a secular campaigner or a Fatah apparatchik, but a senior member of Hamas. In the violent underground of the militias, men like him have become unlikely moderates, calling for calm and seeking to build bonds with the other militias and the government. Security officials and analysts say groups inspired by Al Qaeda have had a presence a decade, where they have thrived, taking advantage of the lawlessness and poor living conditions. In Lebanon, Palestinians are not allowed to own property and are limited in the kind of work they can do. They generally enjoy few rights. Ain al Hilwe, too, became a jihadi hotbed about five years ago. More than 25 men from there alone have gone to Iraq to fight, Hamas and Fatah officials say, never to be seen again. And jihadis there say more are ready to go. Mr. Taha notes that the new groups make it easy to join. Whereas it may take years of inculcation for a young man to become a full-fledged member of Hamas, he can become a member of the jihadi militias just by declaring fealty, Mr. Taha said. And rather than focusing on a political education, the militia members focus on a global fight coupled with religious sloganeering. Whether these jihadist groups are part of Al Qaeda or simply local bands of religious fanatics, Westerners and their institutions are now more clearly under attack throughout the region, including in Gaza, as seen in the bombing of the schools and in the kidnappings of two Fox News correspondents and of Alan Johnston, the BBC’s Gaza correspondent. A shadowy group called the Army of Islam claims that it kidnapped Mr. Johnston in March. Steven Erlanger reported from Jerusalem, and Hassan M. Fattah from Lebanon. Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza, Helene Cooper from Washington, and Nada Bakri from Ain al Hilwe, Lebanon. &#x00bb; Get early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. ANALYSIS; Reality Overtakes the Illusion of Unity in Gaza Israel Withdraws From Gaza as Truce Begins, Unsteadily Israel Adds Gaza Force but Forgoes Big Escalation Big Israeli Strike With Tanks Kills 8 Palestinians in Gaza Armament, Defense and Military Forces &#x00bb; De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Go, Eat, You Never Know Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Thursday, Archive Since 1981 Bush Calls for Global Goals for Emissions By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The U.S. had been expected to be criticized on global warming at next week’s summit of leading industrialized nations. Times Topics: Global Warming outcome of U.S. asylum cases can be influenced by things like the location of the court and the sex and professional background of judges, a study has found. Text of the Report Oral Supreme Court term will be remembered as the time when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg found her voice, and used it. Times Topics: Supreme Court Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards The $6.8 billion deal would create the second-largest retail stock brokerage in the United States. Vacuum By STEVEN ERLANGER and HASSAN M. FATTAH Jihadist influence is growing among Palestinians in Gaza and in a above. Abbas and Olmert to Meet in Palestinian Territory Iraqi Shiite Cleric Ends a Sojourn in Iran By MICHAEL R. GORDON Moktada al- Sadr left for Iran after the Bush administration announced its new security push in January, and his militia immediately went underground. depression among former players is correlated with the number of concussions they had, a study found. For a Former Player, an Answer to Help Clear the Fog Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run By CARL HULSE and PATRICK HEALY Fred D. Thompson could shake up a field of candidates that has failed to strike a chord with the Republican base. In His Own Words More From The Caucus U.S. Economic Growth Weakest in Over 4 Years By JEREMY W. PETERS Growth advanced at a rate of just 0.6 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 1.3 percent. Suspect Accuses British in Spy’s Death Comedy Business Turns to the Web Commuters’ Lede: Jailing Spider-Man? Pogue’s Posts: Microsoft’s Surface Computer The Caucus: What Fred Thompson Said ArtsBeat: At Spoleto, an Italian Ghost What kind of environment is most conducive to happy, productive workers? TB Patient in Denver for Treatment Cease - Fire Eyed to Stop Violence in Iraq Leaner Northwest Airlines Exits Bankruptcy N.H. Governor Signs Civil Unions Law A new breed has emerged, more inclined to complete than compete. House & Home » Hunt Slonem purchases a home that a psychic told him to buy. David Pogue reviews three removable cartridge systems. Kristof: Justice in China Editorial: Court and Pay When the Desert Calls More buyers are turning Palm Springs, Calif., long considered a second-home haven, into a primary residence. Audio Slide Show: Living in Palm Springs More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates YOUR ELLISON DREAM IS HERE!West-facing in ... See All Featured Properties Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Collectors are abuzz over a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé, one of about 40 built, soon to come to auction. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Out of Retirement and Into Uncertainty Older job seekers bring a wealth of experience, but when they look for jobs, they may get as much respect as Rodney Dangerfield. a Classifieds listing Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online GOLDBERG HOLDINGS SEEKS CAPITAL FOR FORECLOSURE ACQUISITIONS IN VEGAS Goldberg Holdings is......... 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. fine art, books and more. Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Nominee Has New Agenda for Bank Syria, Lebanese Opposition Condemn U.N. Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story Near Misses Allowed Man With Tuberculosis to Fly Louisiana Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims Still Unsettled in Wake of New Questions Bush’s Nominee Has New Agenda for Bank N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Test Program in Schools Seek Trust Among Immigrants Albany Close to Agreement to Ease Ticket Resale Limits Coca-Cola and PepsiCo Agree to Curb Animal Tests Life’s Work: Time Wasted? Perhaps It’s Well Spent Misses Allowed Man With Tuberculosis to Fly W.H.O. Seeks More AIDS Tests in Nations at Epidemic’s Center Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story Test Program in Schools British Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott A Garden in Miami, a Loft in Athens Property Values: What You Get for ...$300,000 For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce Tax Increase Batters Chinese Stocks, but There’s Little Wider Damage Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Basics: Where’s the Other Half of Your Music File? Moving Web-Based Software Offline For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce Yankees 10, Blue Jays 5: Rodriguez Says ‘Ha,’ but Jays Aren’t Laughing Giants 3, Mets 0: Overrated? Not Zito, as Giants Blank Mets Spurs 109, Jazz 84: Veteran Spurs Reach Final, Ending Younger Jazz’s Run Frugal Traveler | American Road Trip: Georgia, Alabama and a Bit of Gold Fever In New York | Architectural Landmarks: A Tour With Head Tilted Up Dining & Wine &#x00bb; De Gustibus: Don’t a Snack? Make It a Holiday Proud: Southern Gothic: Ghosts Welcome the Garden: Reshaping Their Own Worldview Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Knowing Where to Draw the Tan Line the Élysée, Seeing a New Camelot Collecting: A Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Wheelspin: On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Editorial: Injustice 5, Justice 4 Age of Reason, From Al Gore (6 Letters) An Watch: Social Climbing to Starting Over: A First Wife’s Lot Royal Opera Steps Into New Act: DVD Maker For Lohan, a Mix of Sympathy and Scorn Movie Review | 'Radiant City': Life in the Sprawling Suburbs, if You Can Really Call It Living ‘Pirates’ Haul So Far Estimated at $401 Million Theater Review | 'Tea': Steeped in Female Bonding, Shared With a Troubled Ghost At the Ensemble Studio Theater, the Show Must Go On Arts Space in Brooklyn to Get New Digs 'Tearing Down the Wall of Sound,' by Mick Brown: From Hitmaker to Defendant, a Together,' by Nayan Chanda: The Rise of Globalization, a Story of Human Desires 'A Thousand Splendid Suns,' by Khaled Hosseini: A Woman’s Lot in Kabul, Lower Than a House Cat’s Week in Review &#x00bb; Suspicion: From Moscow, a New Chill Michael Moore's Math: ‘Sicko,’ Castro and the ‘120 Years Club’ The World: A Handful of Soldiers, on Patrol Judd Apatow’s Family Values The Unintended Consequences of Hyperhydration Where Every Generation Is First-Generation De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Go, Eat, You Never Know Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add to your site Add Feeds Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/sports/football/31concussions.html rate of diagnosed clinical depression among retired National Football League players is strongly correlated with the number of concussions they sustained, according to a study to be published today. Keane for former New England player Ted Johnson has said that his depression had been linked to concussions. An Answer to Help Clear His Fog The draft is now complete. Look back at the picks as they happened on the Fifth Down blog. Randy Moss a Mistake for the Patriots? Go to the Fifth Down Blog » The study was conducted by the University of North Carolina ’s and based on a general health survey of 2,552 retired N.F.L. players. It corroborates other findings regarding brain trauma and later-life depression in other subsets of the general population, but runs counter to longtime assertions by the N.F.L. that concussions in football have no long-term effects. As the most comprehensive study of football players to date, the paper will add to the escalating debate over the effects of and proper approach to football-related concussions. The study, which will appear in the journal of the American College of Sports Medicine, found that of the 595 players who recalled sustaining three or more concussions on the football field, 20.2 percent said they had been found to have depression. That is three times the rate of players who have not sustained concussions. The full data, the study reports, “call into question how effectively retired professional football players with a history of three or more concussions are able to meet the mental and physical demands of life after playing professional football.” In January, a neuropathologist claimed that repeated concussions likely contributed to the November suicide of the former player Andre Waters. Three weeks later, the former linebacker Ted Johnson not only revealed that his significant depression and cognitive decline had been linked by a neurologist to on-field concussions, but also claimed that his most damaging concussion had been sustained after his coach, , coerced him into practicing against the advice of team doctors. While consistently defending its teams’ treatment of concussions and denying any relationship between players’ brain trauma and later neurocognitive decline, the N.F.L. has subsequently announced several related initiatives. The league and its players union recently created a fund to help pay the medical expenses of players suffering from Alzheimer’s disease or similar dementia. Last week, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell announced wide-ranging league guidelines regarding concussions, from obligatory neuropsychological testing for all players to what he called a “whistle-blower system” where players and doctors can anonymously report any coach’s attempt to override the wishes of concussed players or medical personnel. The N.F.L. has criticized previous papers published by the — which identified similar links between on-field concussions and both later mild cognitive impairment and early-onset Alzheimer’s disease — and reasserted those concerns this week with regard to the paper on depression. Several members of the league’s mild traumatic brain injury committee cited two main issues in telephone interviews this week: that the survey was returned by 69 percent of the retired players to whom it was mailed, and that those who did respond were relying solely on their memories of on-field concussions. One committee member, Dr. Henry Feuer of the Indiana University Medical Center and a medical consultant for the , went so far as to call the center’s findings “virtually worthless.” Dr. Ira Casson, the co-chairman of the committee, said, “Survey studies are the weakest type of research study — they’re subject to all kinds of error and misinterpretation and miscalculation.” Regarding the issue of players’ recollection of brain trauma, Dr. Casson said: “They had no objective evaluations to determine whether or not what the people told them in the surveys was correct or not. They didn’t have information from doctors confirming it, they didn’t have tests, they didn’t have examinations. They didn’t have anything. They just kind of took people’s words for it.” According to other experts, the 69 percent return rate was quite high for such survey research, which has been widely used to establish preliminary links between smoking and lung cancer, explore the relationship between diet and health, and track trends in obesity and drug use. After reading the depression study and considering the league’s issues with recollective survey research, Dr. John Whyte, the director of the Moss Rehabilitation Research Institute in Philadelphia and an expert in neurological research methodology, said he did not share the league’s criticisms. “To the person who says this is worthless, let’s just discard a third of the medical literature that we trust and go by today,” said Dr. Whyte, who has no connection with either the N.F.L. or the which is partly funded by the N.F.L. players union. “Here, the response rate was good and not a relevant issue to the findings. We have some pretty solid data that multiple concussions caused cumulative brain damage and increased risk of depression, and that is not in conflict with the growing literature. “Do I think this one study proves the point beyond doubt? No. Does it contribute in a meaningful way? You bet.” (1 of 26) Follow Hard-Hitting Career in N.F.L. PRO FOOTBALL; Expert Ties Ex-Player's Suicide To Brain Damage From Football PRO FOOTBALL; Expert in Scouting Doesn't See Athletes Play 2 Athletes In Abuse Case To Undergo Evaluation Mental Health and Disorders (1 of 26) &#x00bb; Namath leaping - 1966
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/01/business/01cnd-econ.html?ex=1338350400&en=13e891fe750026be&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss U.S. Economic Growth Weakest in Over 4 Years - Economic Growth Weakest in Over 4 Years Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 1, 2007 The economy grew at less than half the rate first estimated in the first quarter, the Commerce Department said today in its revision of the nation’s gross domestic product. Skip to next paragraph today’s numbers were released, it was clear the economy was downshifting from the rapid 5.6 percent expansion of the first quarter last year. But the new data reinforced how significant the slowdown has been. Growth advanced just 0.6 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 1.3 percent. It was the slowest rate recorded since the fourth quarter of 2002. The chief reasons for the revisions were adjustments to the estimates of imports and business inventories. Imports, which subtract from the gross domestic product, were stronger than the government first thought. At the same time, businesses cut production and accumulated smaller inventory stockpiles. Despite the adjustments to the growth figures, inflation in the first quarter was essentially unrevised. Prices excluding food and energy, a measure preferred by the Federal Reserve, advanced by 2.2 percent in the first quarter, still above what the central bank has said it considers acceptable. But there were some revisions to the numbers that economists said they found to be encouraging. Consumer spending, the staple of economic growth for the last decade, was revised higher. It advanced 4.4 percent in the first quarter, compared with an initial estimate of 3.8 percent. And the drag from the collapse in residential real estate was slightly less than the government first reported. Most economists agree that the first quarter was probably a low point for the last several years, and they expect the economy has regained some strength in the second quarter. Although consumer spending has probably slowed since the first quarter and the correction in the housing market is ongoing, economists expect demand from overseas to help businesses in the United States. “There are reasons to expect G.D.P. growth to improve,” said Richard Moody, chief economist with Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm in Austin, Texas. Next Article in Business (1 of 31) To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. New Reading Shows Growth Higher in '06 What Could Bog Down the Bull; Slowing Earnings Threaten to Turn the Easy Going Into a Slog Through Mud Vigorous Consumer Spending Helped Economy Grow 3.5% at the End of 2006 Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Business (1 of 31) &#x00bb; MOST POPULAR - BUSINESS Economix: Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Bumped Fliers and No Plan B In India, Grandma Cooks, They Deliver Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Advertising: Telling India&#8217;s Modern Women They Have Power, Even Over Their Skin Tone Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards for $6.8 Billion Ernst & Young Won&#8217;t Face Criminal Charges Europe Pushes to Get Fuel From Fields Melamine From U.S. Put in Feed Lens Fluid Maker Says Link to Infection Unsolved Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Not to See the Fallen Is No Favor The High Price of Creating Free Ads Apple's Lesson for Sony's Stores: Just Connect More Than Ever, It Pays to Be the Top Executive Is Wal-Mart Too Cheap for Its Own Good? Test of Drug for Diabetes in Jeopardy Now, Spitzer Is Warming to Wall St. Grandma Cooks, They Deliver million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/nyregion/31liquor.html Commuters&#8217; Cocktail Hour Likely to Keep Rolling - Cocktail Hour Likely to Keep Rolling James Estrin/The relax on a 5:26 p.m. Metro-North train to Bridgeport, Conn., one of few with a dedicated bar car. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 The city banned cigarettes in bars, and the smokers trooped out to the sidewalk. Trans fats in restaurants were next, and the French fry addicts mostly shrugged. But since the Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced that it was considering banning alcohol on commuter trains, it has been a different story. Skip to next paragraph James Estrin/The buy beer and soft drinks at Grand Central Terminal. Bankers and brokers and blue-collar workers spoke out in defense of the tradition of a Scotch and soda or a cold Budweiser on the ride home to Huntington or Greenwich. And the authority listened. Faced with an overwhelmingly negative response to the proposed ban, a committee of the authority’s board has recommended that the cocktail hour be allowed to continue on the trains and platforms of the Long Island and Metro-North railroads, according to a member of the committee and two people briefed on its findings. The full board is expected to take up the issue next month, and appears likely to follow the recommendation. The panel, which has been meeting for the last few months, received a thick sheaf of petitions signed by what officials estimated were thousands of commuters. And it met with representatives of rider groups who wanted to retain the end-of-day ritual. “It’s one of the things that makes this slog north or east palatable,” said Richard Shea, a public relations executive who helped start a group called Commuters Allied for Responsible Enjoyment, to defend what he described as “the romantic ideal” of the suburban commuter enjoying a drink on the way home — in his case, a Bud Light on the 6:52 to Chappaqua, in Westchester County. Mr. Shea encouraged fellow passengers to write to authority board members, urging them to block the proposal. At Pennsylvania Station and Grand Central Terminal yesterday, as riders stocked up on chardonnay and Bass ale for the trip home, many could not resist casting the issue in terms that went far beyond one evening’s round of beers. “People don’t like to have eyes over their shoulders 24/7,” said John Carnival, 43, an operating engineer from Massapequa Park, on Long Island, who bought two cans of Budweiser, packed in a plastic bag with ice, from a bar cart at Penn Station. He called the proposed ban “a little too much Big Brother.” Liquor service on commuter rail is a vestige of earlier days. Peter Derrick, a transit historian, said the commuter lines were modeled after interstate railroads, on which alcohol was a traditional amenity. Uniformed bartenders employed by Metro-North sell beer, wine, hard liquor, sodas and snacks from carts stationed near platforms at Grand Central Terminal on weekdays, beginning shortly after noon. The Long Island Railroad has carts staffed by bartenders on the platforms at Pennsylvania Station, and at the Hunterspoint Avenue, Jamaica and Flatbush Avenue stations, beginning about 3 p.m. During the evening rush, bartenders wheel their carts onto two Long Island-bound trains leaving Penn Station and sell alcohol to passengers during the trip. On Friday afternoons in the summer, the Long Island also sells alcohol from carts on the Cannonball, a train that travels from Hunterspoint to Montauk, carrying weekenders to the Hamptons. The only full-fledged bar cars that remain are on Metro-North’s New Haven line, and are run in cooperation with the State of Connecticut. On a typical weekday, 17 trains leaving Grand Central for cities like Stamford and Bridgeport from 12:07 p.m. to 9:07 p.m. include a bar car. The authority first agreed to consider a halt to alcohol sales on commuter trains and in rail stations in December, at the urging of Mitchell H. Pally, a board member from Long Island. Mr. Pally said he was concerned that passengers would drink on the train and then drive home, creating a liability for the authority if they became involved in an accident. He also said he worried that rowdy drinkers might be disturbing other passengers. A committee of five board members was created shortly afterward to study the idea. But data provided by the authority’s Police Department does not indicate widespread problems stemming from the sale of alcohol by the railroads. The police issued 287 tickets on the Long Island and Metro-North lines last year to people on trains or in stations who were drinking alcohol and creating a disturbance. Far more prevalent, the police said, were instances of people on commuter lines who needed medical help because of extreme drunkenness. There were 994 such cases on the two railroads last year, but officials said that in virtually every case, the riders appeared to have done most or all of their drinking before they ever got on a train. Each year, the railroad bartenders rank high in a customer satisfaction survey of Metro-North riders. In 2006, they received a favorable review from 97 percent of riders, who rated their courtesy and responsiveness second only to that of conductors, who scored 98 percent. Gene Colonese, the rail administrator for the Connecticut Transportation Department, said that an official from the department met with the committee in April and strongly urged it not to change the policy, saying alcohol sales were “a valuable service to our customers.” The committee also met with the presidents of the two railroads, conductors and a representative of the authority’s police force, which patrols the commuter trains and stations. “There was no overwhelming evidence of drunkenness or anything like that, or accidents,” the board member said. He said the only person who met with the committee to speak in favor of the ban was Mr. Pally. The committee finished its work earlier this month and submitted a report to Peter Kalikow, the authority’s chairman, and Elliot G. Sander, the chief executive and executive director. Mr. Kalikow and Mr. Sander declined to be interviewed about the committee’s recommendation. Mathew R. Warren contributed reporting. Next Article in New York Region (1 of 24) To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SOAPBOX; On the 'Roadie' Rell's Budget Raises Gas Tax to Improve Roads TRANSIT PROJECTS ARE PUT IN DOUBT BY PATAKI BUDGET Aboard Bar Car, Some Riders Fear Last Call Is Near; A Fight Stirs on Metro-North Next Article in New York Region (1 of 24) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Buckner, Wilson Autographed Photo Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/washington/31scotus.html Oral In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 WASHINGTON, May 30 &#151; Whatever else may be said about the Supreme Court&#8217;s current term, which ends in about a month, it will be remembered as the time when Justice found her voice, and used it. Skip to next paragraph In two recent cases, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg read forceful dissents. Justices’ Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity Times Topics: The Supreme Court case the court decided last month and the discrimination ruling it issued on Tuesday, Justice Ginsburg read forceful dissents from the bench. In each case, she spoke not only for herself but also for three other dissenting colleagues, Justices But the words were clearly her own, and they were both passionate and pointed. In the abortion case, in which the court upheld the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act seven years after having struck down a similar state law, she noted that the court was now &#8220;differently composed than it was when we last considered a restrictive abortion regulation.&#8221; In the latest case, she summoned Congress to overturn what she called the majority&#8217;s &#8220;parsimonious reading&#8221; of the federal law against discrimination in the workplace. To read a dissent aloud is an act of theater that justices use to convey their view that the majority is not only mistaken, but profoundly wrong. It happens just a handful of times a year. Justice has used the technique to powerful effect, as has Justice Stevens, in a decidedly more low-key manner. The oral dissent has not been, until now, Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s style. She has gone years without delivering one, and never before in her 15 years on the court has she delivered two in one term. In her past dissents, both oral and written, she has been reluctant to breach the court&#8217;s collegial norms. &#8220;What she is saying is that this is not law, it&#8217;s politics,&#8221; Pamela S. Karlan, a Stanford law professor, said of Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s comment linking the outcome in the abortion case to the fact of the court&#8217;s changed membership. &#8220;She is accusing the other side of making political claims, not legal claims.&#8221; The justice&#8217;s acquaintances have watched with great interest what some depict as a late-career transformation. &#8220;Her style has always been very ameliorative, very conscious of etiquette,&#8221; said Cynthia Fuchs Epstein, the sociologist and a longtime friend. &#8220;She has always been regarded as sort of a white-glove person, and she&#8217;s achieved a lot that way. Now she is seeing that basic issues she&#8217;s fought so hard for are in jeopardy, and she is less bound by what have been the conventions of the court.&#8221; Some might say her dissents are an expression of sour grapes over being in the minority more often than not. But there may be strategic judgment, as well as frustration, behind Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s new style. She may have concluded that quiet collegiality has proved futile and that her new colleagues, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. Samuel A. Alito Jr. , are not open to persuasion on the issues that matter most to her. Justice Alito, of course, took the place of Justice , with whom Justice Ginsburg formed a deep emotional bond, although they differed on a variety of issues. And Chief Justice Roberts succeeded Chief Justice , with whom Justice Ginsburg often disagreed but maintained a relationship that was at times surprisingly productive. For example, in 1996, over Justice Scalia&#8217;s vigorous dissent, the chief justice gave Justice Ginsburg his vote in a decision holding that the &#8217;s men-only admissions policy was unconstitutional. In 2003, they made common cause in a case that strengthened the Family and Medical Leave Act. When Justice Ginsburg criticized a Rehnquist opinion, she did so gently; today&#8217;s adversary could be tomorrow&#8217;s ally. If there has been any such meeting of the minds between Justice Ginsburg and her new colleagues, it has not been evident. She may have concluded that her side&#8217;s interests are better served by appealing not to the court&#8217;s majority but to the public. &#8220;She&#8217;s sounding an alarm and wants people to take notice,&#8221; said Debra L. Ness, president of the National Partnership for Women and Families, an advocacy group that focuses on the workplace. Goodwin Liu, a law professor at the , Berkeley, was one of Justice Ginsburg&#8217;s law clerks when the court decided the 2000 election case, the bitterly divided Bush v. Gore decision, from which she dissented. Even during that freighted period, Professor Liu said, &#8220;I was struck by how much of an institutional citizen she was, how attuned to the wishes of her colleagues and to not giving offense.&#8221; Professor Liu said that when he read the dissent on Tuesday, it occurred to him that in recounting the workplace travails of the plaintiff, Lilly M. Ledbetter, Justice Ginsburg was also telling a version of her own story. &#8220;Here she is, the one woman of a nine-member body, describing the get-along imperative and the desire not to make waves felt by the one woman among 16 men,&#8221; Professor Liu said. &#8220;It&#8217;s as if after 15 years on the court, she&#8217;s finally voicing some complaints of her own.&#8221; Another of the justice&#8217;s friends, Prof. Judith Resnik of Yale Law School, noted that throughout her legal career, Justice Ginsburg has been deeply concerned about questions of access to the courts and the remedial powers of federal judges, themes she has explored in both majority and dissenting opinions. &#8220;Those of us reading not just the grand-slam cases but the quieter ones have heard her voice,&#8221; Professor Resnik said. She added, &#8220;Now that the stakes are going up, more people will be listening.&#8221; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Supreme Court Ruling Limits State Control of Big Banks Justices Hear Arguments About Pacts On Pricing Government Urges Supreme Court to Stay Out of Times Case Supreme Court Opens Term With Short Session &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Thursday, May 31, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Bush Calls for Global Goals for Emissions By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The U.S. had been expected to be criticized on global warming at next week’s summit of leading industrialized nations. Times Topics: Global Warming Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases The outcome of U.S. asylum cases can be influenced by things like the location of the court and the sex and professional background of judges, a study has found. Text of the Report Oral Supreme Court term will be remembered as the time when Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg found her voice, and used it. Times Topics: Supreme Court Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards The $6.8 billion deal would create the second-largest retail stock brokerage in the United States. Those Real-Life Mac and PC Guys It didn’t take long for the first joint appearance by Bill Gates and Steve Jobs in 20 years to get around to the latest chapter in their rivalry: the Apple television ads. Related Article: For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce Concussions Tied to Depression in Ex-N.F.L. Players Clinical depression among former players is correlated with the number of concussions they had, a study found. For a Former Player, an Answer to Help Clear the Fog American College of Sports Medicine Study (pdf) U.S. Economic Growth Weakest in Over 4 Years By JEREMY W. PETERS Growth advanced at a rate of just 0.6 percent, compared with an initial estimate of 1.3 percent. Suspect Accuses British in Spy’s Death Taliban May Have Caused Copter Crash, Officials Say Comedy Business Turns to the Web Commuters’ Cocktail Hour Likely to Keep Rolling Jihadist Groups Fill a Palestinian Power Vacuum Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run The Empire Zone: Digital Cartographers’ Race The Lede: Jailing Spider-Man? Pogue’s Posts: Microsoft’s Surface Computer The Caucus: What Fred Thompson Said What kind of environment is most conducive to happy, productive workers? Estate Of Mexican Screen Legend Maria Felix on Sale TB Patient ID'd As Atlanta Attorney, 31 Retiring Envoy Commenst on Afghanistan Stocks Up After Takeover News, GDP Data A new breed has emerged, more inclined to complete than compete. House & Home » Hunt Slonem purchases a home that a psychic told him to buy. David Pogue reviews three removable cartridge systems. Kristof: Justice in China Editorial: Court and Pay When the Desert Calls More buyers are turning Palm Springs, Calif., long considered a second-home haven, into a primary residence. Audio Slide Show: Living in Palm Springs More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates GENUINE LOFTSOne stop to midtown! Key-locked ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Collectors are abuzz over a Bugatti Type 57C Atalante coupé, one of about 40 built, soon to come to auction. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location Out of Retirement and Into Uncertainty Older job seekers bring a wealth of experience, but when they look for jobs, they may get as much respect as Rodney Dangerfield. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online "The Institute, founded in 1976, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit educational association serving ..."...... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Photos, fine art, books and more. Bush Requests $30 Billion to Fight AIDS Bush’s Nominee Has New Agenda for Bank Hezbollah, Syria Denounce U.N. Tribunal Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story Near Misses Allowed Man With Tuberculosis to Fly Louisiana Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims Bush Requests $30 Billion to Fight AIDS F.D.A. Still Unsettled in Wake of New Questions Bush’s Nominee Has New Agenda for Bank N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; New York City Expands Test Program in Schools New York City Police Seek Trust Among Immigrants Albany Close to Agreement to Ease Ticket Resale Limits Coca-Cola and PepsiCo Agree to Curb Animal Tests Life’s Work: Time Wasted? Perhaps It’s Well Spent Requests $30 Billion to Fight AIDS Near Misses Allowed Man With Tuberculosis to Fly W.H.O. Seeks More AIDS Tests in Nations at Epidemic’s Center Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story New York City Expands Test Program in Schools British Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott A Garden in Miami, a Loft in Athens Property Values: What You Get for ...$300,000 Wachovia to Buy A.G. Edwards For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce Tax Increase Batters Chinese Stocks, but There’s Little Wider Damage Basics: Where’s the Other Half of Your Music File? Moving Web-Based Software Offline For Jobs and Gates, a Night to Reminisce Two Sets Down, Hewitt Comes Back Strong Street Sense to Skip the Belmont Yankees 10, Blue Jays 5: Rodriguez Says ‘Ha,’ but Jays Aren’t Laughing Frugal Traveler | American Road Trip: Georgia, Alabama and a Bit of Gold Fever Bumped Fliers and No Plan B Weekend In New York | Architectural Landmarks: A Tour With Head Tilted Up Dining & Wine &#x00bb; De Gustibus: Don’t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Having a Snack? Make It a Holiday House Proud: Southern Gothic: Ghosts Welcome the Garden: Reshaping Their Own Worldview Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Knowing Where to Draw the Tan Line Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them At the Élysée, Seeing a New Camelot Collecting: A Sleeping Beauty Since ’62, Rare Bugatti Awaits Its Comeback Wheelspin: On This Run, Way More Bandits Than Smokeys (but No Beer) Editorial: Injustice 5, Justice 4 Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution An Age of Reason, From Al Gore (6 Letters) An Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais The TV Watch: Social Climbing to Starting Over: A First Wife’s Lot Royal Opera Steps Into New Act: DVD Maker For Lohan, a Mix of Sympathy and Scorn Movie Review | 'Radiant City': Life in the Sprawling Suburbs, if You Can Really Call It Living ‘Pirates’ Haul So Far Estimated at $401 Million Theater Review | 'Tea': Steeped in Female Bonding, Shared With a Troubled Ghost At the Ensemble Studio Theater, the Show Must Go On Arts Space in Brooklyn to Get New Digs 'Tearing Down the Wall of Sound,' by Mick Brown: From Hitmaker to Defendant, a Long and Winding Road 'Bound Together,' by Nayan Chanda: The Rise of Globalization, a Story of Human Desires 'A Thousand Splendid Suns,' by Khaled Hosseini: A Woman’s Lot in Kabul, Lower Than a House Cat’s Week in Review &#x00bb; Suspicion: From Moscow, a New Chill Michael Moore's Math: ‘Sicko,’ Castro and the ‘120 Years Club’ The World: A Handful of Soldiers, on Patrol Judd Apatow’s Family Values The Unintended Consequences of Hyperhydration Where Every Generation Is First-Generation De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Supreme Court Memo: Oral Business Turns to the Web Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity What I Think About Evolution Some Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add to your site Add Feeds Get little as $3.15 a week.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/sports/football/31concussions.html Concussions Tied to Depression in Ex-N.F.L. Players - Tied to Depression in Ex-N.F.L. Players Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 The rate of diagnosed clinical depression among retired National Football League players is strongly correlated with the number of concussions they sustained, according to a study to be published today. Skip to next paragraph Chris Keane for former New England player Ted Johnson has said that his depression had been linked to concussions. An Answer to Help Clear His Fog American College of Sports Medicine Study (pdf) The draft is now complete. Look back at the picks as they happened on the Fifth Down blog. Randy Moss a Mistake for the Patriots? Go to the Fifth Down Blog » The study was conducted by the University of North Carolina ’s Center for the Study of Retired Athletes and based on a general health survey of 2,552 retired N.F.L. players. It corroborates other findings regarding brain trauma and later-life depression in other subsets of the general population, but runs counter to longtime assertions by the N.F.L. that concussions in football have no long-term effects. As the most comprehensive study of football players to date, the paper will add to the escalating debate over the effects of and proper approach to football-related concussions. The study, which will appear in the journal of the American College of Sports Medicine, found that of the 595 players who recalled sustaining three or more concussions on the football field, 20.2 percent said they had been found to have depression. That is three times the rate of players who have not sustained concussions. The full data, the study reports, “call into question how effectively retired professional football players with a history of three or more concussions are able to meet the mental and physical demands of life after playing professional football.” In January, a neuropathologist claimed that repeated concussions likely contributed to the November suicide of the former player Andre Waters. Three weeks later, the former linebacker Ted Johnson not only revealed that his significant depression and cognitive decline had been linked by a neurologist to on-field concussions, but also claimed that his most damaging concussion had been sustained after his coach, , coerced him into practicing against the advice of team doctors. While consistently defending its teams’ treatment of concussions and denying any relationship between players’ brain trauma and later neurocognitive decline, the N.F.L. has subsequently announced several related initiatives. The league and its players union recently created a fund to help pay the medical expenses of players suffering from Alzheimer’s disease or similar dementia. Last week, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell announced wide-ranging league guidelines regarding concussions, from obligatory neuropsychological testing for all players to what he called a “whistle-blower system” where players and doctors can anonymously report any coach’s attempt to override the wishes of concussed players or medical personnel. The N.F.L. has criticized previous papers published by the Center for the Study of Retired Athletes — which identified similar links between on-field concussions and both later mild cognitive impairment and early-onset Alzheimer’s disease — and reasserted those concerns this week with regard to the paper on depression. Several members of the league’s mild traumatic brain injury committee cited two main issues in telephone interviews this week: that the survey was returned by 69 percent of the retired players to whom it was mailed, and that those who did respond were relying solely on their memories of on-field concussions. One committee member, Dr. Henry Feuer of the Indiana University Medical Center and a medical consultant for the , went so far as to call the center’s findings “virtually worthless.” Dr. Ira Casson, the co-chairman of the committee, said, “Survey studies are the weakest type of research study — they’re subject to all kinds of error and misinterpretation and miscalculation.” Regarding the issue of players’ recollection of brain trauma, Dr. Casson said: “They had no objective evaluations to determine whether or not what the people told them in the surveys was correct or not. They didn’t have information from doctors confirming it, they didn’t have tests, they didn’t have examinations. They didn’t have anything. They just kind of took people’s words for it.” According to other experts, the 69 percent return rate was quite high for such survey research, which has been widely used to establish preliminary links between smoking and lung cancer, explore the relationship between diet and health, and track trends in obesity and drug use. After reading the depression study and considering the league’s issues with recollective survey research, Dr. John Whyte, the director of the Moss Rehabilitation Research Institute in Philadelphia and an expert in neurological research methodology, said he did not share the league’s criticisms. “To the person who says this is worthless, let’s just discard a third of the medical literature that we trust and go by today,” said Dr. Whyte, who has no connection with either the N.F.L. or the Center for the Study of Retired Athletes, which is partly funded by the N.F.L. players union. “Here, the response rate was good and not a relevant issue to the findings. We have some pretty solid data that multiple concussions caused cumulative brain damage and increased risk of depression, and that is not in conflict with the growing literature. “Do I think this one study proves the point beyond doubt? No. Does it contribute in a meaningful way? You bet.” Next Article in Sports (1 of 27) To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Dark Days Follow Hard-Hitting Career in N.F.L. PRO FOOTBALL; Expert Ties Ex-Player's Suicide To Brain Damage From Football PRO FOOTBALL; Expert in Scouting Doesn't See Athletes Play 2 Athletes In Abuse Case To Undergo Evaluation Mental Health and Disorders Next Article in Sports (1 of 27) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Joe Namath leaping - 1966 Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/washington/04cnd-jeff.html Democratic Lawmaker Is Indicted - Lawmaker Is Indicted Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 WASHINGTON, June 4 &#151; Representative of Louisiana was indicted today on corruption charges in connection with an inquiry that has yielded reports of cash stuffed into home freezers and murky financial transactions with several African countries in what Justice Department officials called a sordid episode of corruption that touched two continents.. Skip to next paragraph A federal grand jury in Alexandria, Va., handed up the 16-count indictment against Mr. Jefferson, which was announced this afternoon by officials at the Justice Department in Washington. The charges include bribery, racketeering, money-laundering and obstruction of justice. Mr. Jefferson, 60, whose New Orleans constituents elected him to a ninth term last year despite accusations of corruption, has denied wrongdoing. He is to be arraigned Friday morning in Alexandra. On paper, Mr. Jefferson could be sentenced to up to 235 years in prison if convicted on all charges, although prosecutors acknowledged today that it is impossible to gauge at this point what his actual sentence would be &#151; assuming he is convicted &#151; because of the various sentencing guidelines that must be weighed. Mr. Jefferson has been under suspicion in connection with his efforts to promote contracts in Africa for iGate, a small digital-technology company based in Louisville, Ky. The congressman has been influential on African issues in his years in the House. According to the indictment, and as described by Justice Department officials, Mr. Jefferson put his office up for sale for five years, from August 2000 to August 2005, seeking to enrich himself to get cash and other &#8220;things of value&#8221; to advance the interests of people and businesses who offered him payoffs. &#8220;The schemes charged are complex, but the essence of this case is simple,&#8221; said Charles Rosenberg, for the Eastern District of Virginia. &#8220;Mr. Jefferson corruptly traded on his good office, and on the Congress where he served as a member of of Representatives , to enrich himself and his family through a pervasive pattern of fraud, bribery and corruption.&#8221; The head of the technology company, Vernon L. Jackson, has already pleaded guilty to paying more than $400,000 in bribes for Mr. Jefferson&#8217;s help, and he has been sentenced to seven years in prison. Brett M. Pfeffer, a former Congressional aide to Mr. Jefferson, has also pleaded guilty to corruption charges and has been sentenced to eight years in prison. In 2005, as the inquiry progressed, agents raided Mr. Jefferson&#8217;s home, opened a freezer and found $90,000 in cash, money the investigators said was intended for a bribe of a Nigerian politician on behalf of Mr. Jackson. In return for promoting the digital company in Africa, Mr. Jefferson demanded part-ownership of the business for his family, investigators have alleged. But the indictment and federal officials said Mr. Jefferson&#8217;s criminal dealings were not confined to the digital technology business but extended to oil concessions, satellite transmission contracts and other areas. The investigation also caused an incident with constitutional implications when agents raided the Capitol Hill offices of Mr. Jefferson. Mr. Jefferson asserted that the raid was unconstitutional because of the separate of powers between the legislative and executive branches of government, and for a time investigators were blocked from reviewing the documents that were seized in the raid. Investigators maintain that Mr. Jefferson prodded the Pentagon to test iGate products, lobbied politicians in several African countries to include the company in telecommunications projects, and repeatedly urged the Export-Import Bank of finance the deals. In one instance, Mr. Jefferson solicited a bribe in a Congressional dining room, officials said today. His dealings cost Mr. Jefferson a seat on the House Ways and Means Committee, when Democratic leaders voted last summer to oust him. Nevertheless, he captured more than 60 percent of the vote in his Congressional district last year. Members of Congress may continue to serve while under indictment. The case is being handled in Virginia because the case originated in McLean, Va., when a cooperating witness came forward, Justice Department officials said. Mr. Rosenberg replied with some heat when he was asked how he would reply to someone who might wonder if the indictment was being announced now to deflect attention from the controversy over the firing of and other issues that have brought unwanted attention on Attorney General &#8220;Frankly, we don&#8217;t give a damn about politics,&#8221; Mr. Rosenberg said. &#8220;He broke the law. Period.&#8221; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Embattled Louisiana Legislator Prevails Longtime Lawmaker, Under Cloud, Fights to Stay On National Briefing | Washington: Executive Is Sentenced In Bribery Case &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/middleeast/04cnd-Iraq.html In Video, Insurgents Claim 2 Missing G.I.&#8217;s Are Dead - Video, Insurgents Claim 2 Missing G.I.’s Are Dead Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 BAGHDAD, June 4 — A Sunni Arab insurgent group released a video on Monday that showed the military identification cards of two missing American soldiers abducted in an ambush south of Baghdad last month, and the group claimed the two had been killed along with one other soldier. The video — from the Islamic State of , an umbrella insurgent group that includes Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia — did not provide proof of whether the two missing soldiers were alive or dead. But an American military official with the missing soldiers’ unit said the identification cards appeared to be authentic, suggesting that the group was involved in the attack. The narrator of the video asserted that the soldiers were dead. “We decided to finish this issue and announce the killing of the soldiers and to make the enemies of God carry the bitter responsibility,” the video’s narrator said. “After the three soldiers were alive as prisoners they became dead bodies.” American military officials said they would study the video for clues and continue searching for the two missing soldiers, Spc. Alex R. Jimenez , 25, of Lawrence, Mass., and Pvt. Byron W. Fouty, 19, of Waterford, Mich. “We’ve been on the lookout for something like this,” said Lt. Col. Christopher Garver, an American military spokesman in Baghdad. Investigators, he said, “will continue to review it for whatever information we can gain from it.” The video did not refer by name to the third abducted soldier, Pfc. Joseph J. Anzack Jr., 20, of Torrance, Calif. Private Anzack’s body was pulled from the Euphrates River in Babil Province, south of Baghdad, 11 days after the ambush on May 12. Videos of kidnapped Westerners and attacks against American troops have frequently been used for propaganda purposes by insurgents. Monday’s video was significant largely because it was less graphic than usual and provided little actual evidence that those who produced the video actually held the two soldiers captive or killed them. Its limited scope and appearance nearly a month after the ambush seemed to confirm what some American military commanders have suspected all along: that the insurgents are seeking to drag out the process of discovery and deny closure to the families of the missing soldiers and the thousands of American and Iraqi troops who have been searching for them since the day they disappeared. The undated video was made available to reporters by the Site Institute, which tracks Jihadist Web sites. Of the nearly 11 minutes of footage, the only portion that purportedly corresponds to the attack shows what appears to be a burning Humvee, videotaped from far away at night for a few seconds. The attack — which occurred before dawn near Yusifiya, a Sunni stronghold about 15 miles south of the capital — did lead to the burning of two Humvees that were attacked, according to military officials. But the video does not show the three soldiers who were abducted nor the five soldiers killed during the ambush, one of whom was an Iraqi. What the video displays is a group of masked men apparently planning the ambush using a diagram pinned to a tree. Personal items that appear to belong to the soldiers are also shown, including a pistol, credit cards and American and Iraqi money. At the end, the video shows a still image of both sides of the photo identifications of Specialist Jimenez and Private Fouty. Above the photos, written in Arabic, was the message, “Bush is the reason for the loss of your sons.” The video repeatedly mocks the American military for being unable to find the three abducted soldiers. Citing the American use of helicopters and unmanned aircraft, the video’s narrator said, “They felt arrogant because of their abilities and their technology, which was humiliated by the Islamic State’s soldiers.” Despite the deployment of 4,000 American troops, the video said, “they failed.” “No one will be held responsible for what happened to the three soldiers,” the narrator said, “except the American Army and its leaders and politicians who degrade all of mankind and do not care for the feelings of the three soldiers’ mothers.” David S. Cloud, Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Ahmad Fadam, contributed reporting. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Bridge Bombing Increases Tensions in Northern Iraq Investigator Faults Colonel for Actions During Killings THE WORLD; Iraq&#8217;s Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory NEWS ANALYSIS; With Korea as Model, Bush Team Ponders Long Support Role in Iraq &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Mark Messier Signed Puck Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/washington/04cnd-scotus.html Jury Selection Made Easier in Death Penalty Cases - Selection Made Easier in Death Penalty Cases Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 WASHINGTON, June 4 — The Supreme Court today reinstated the death sentence imposed on a Washington State rapist and murderer, and in so doing appeared to make it easier for prosecutors to select jurors who are predisposed toward capital punishment in future cases. The 5-to-4 ruling was against Cal Coburn Brown, who robbed, raped and tortured a woman in 1991 before leaving her to die at a motel near the Seattle-Tacoma airport, and then robbed, raped and tortured another woman in Palm Springs, Calif., two days later. The California woman survived. The court majority held that, contrary to a ruling by of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the trial judge was justified in excusing a juror who seemed deeply confused about his own role and how the state’s death penalty law was to be applied. After the conviction and death sentence were affirmed in the state courts, a federal district court denied the defendant’s petition for a writ of habeas corpus to challenge his conviction. The Ninth Circuit overruled that federal court, but the high court majority said today that the circuit had “neglected” to give the proper consideration to the trial court’s judgment. Appellate courts “owe deference to the trial court, which is in a superior position to determine a potential juror’s demeanor and qualifications,” Justice wrote for the majority. Nor does this position contradict the principle that a defendant has the right to an impartial jury “that has not been tilted in favor of capital punishment,” he wrote. Joining Justice Kennedy were Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. Samuel A. Alito Jr. In concluding that the Ninth Circuit erred, the majority ruled that the Washington State Supreme Court was correct in finding that the juror, known only as “Juror Z,” was “substantially impaired” in his ability to carry out his duties. read a dissent from the bench — an unmistakable signal of his strong feelings about the issue — in which he asserted that the majority had chosen “to defer blindly to a state court’s erroneous characterization” of what the juror actually said. Justice Stevens said the juror in question had made it clear that “he was in no way categorically opposed” to capital punishment, and that in any event his confusion seemed to have abated by the time he was thrown off the panel. “Today, the court has fundamentally redefined — or maybe just misunderstood — the meaning of ‘substantially impaired,’ and, in doing so, has gotten it horribly backwards,” Justice Stevens said. By “horribly backwards,” Justice Stevens said he meant the majority’s apparent impression “that trial courts should be encouraging the inclusion of jurors who will impose the death penalty rather than only ensuring the exclusion of those who say that, in all circumstances, they cannot.” Justice Stevens was joined by Justices The defendant killed Holly Washa, 21, after abducting her in her car and driving her to the motel. He turned himself in after raping and trying to kill the California woman. He was sentenced to life in prison for the crimes he committed in California, but a jury in King County, Wash., sentenced him in death in 1993 for the crimes he committed there. The high court’s majority found that the juror at the center of the case seemed unable to comprehend that there were two stark choices in sentencing the defendant: the death penalty or life in prison with no possibility of parole. The prosecutor explained “for at least the fourth time” that there was no chance the defendant would ever be freed, the majority found. Moreover, the majority noted, it is not just what a juror says but how he behaves that is important. “The trial court bases its judgment in part on the juror’s demeanor, a judgment owed deference by reviewing courts,” the majority said. But Justice Stevens and the other dissenters argued that the juror’s apparent confusion abated, “and he made clear that even if the defendant were never to be released, he could still consider the death penalty.” As for “facial expressions” and other non-verbal factors, “the majority reads too much into too little,” Justices Breyer and Souter wrote in a separate dissent. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Supreme Court to Hear Appeal Of Mexican Death Row Inmate SIDEBAR; In Alabama, Execution Without Representation Policy Shift on Death Penalty Overwhelms Arizona Court Justices Scrutinize Death Penalty in Texas &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/europe/04cnd-putin.html Bush Goes to Europe in Wake of Putin&#8217;s Threat - Goes to Europe in Wake of Putin’s Threat President Bush departed for Europe where he will attend the summit of leading industrialized nations in Germany. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By JUDY DEMPSEY and Published: June 4, 2007 BERLIN, June 4 — President Bush flew to Europe today for talks with world leaders later this week, including President of Russia, in the wake of a threat by Mr. Putin to point Russian missiles at Europe if its missile defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic. Skip to next paragraph China Releases Climate Change Plan News Analysis: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes In an interview with journalists from the other big industrialized countries that was released on the Kremlin Web site, Mr. Putin set an uncompromising tone before the start of the group’s summit meeting in Germany on Wednesday. His comments set a challenge for Mr. Bush, who flew to Prague in the Czech Republic today before the meeting in Germany. The comments drew criticism from , which described Mr. Putin’s statements as “unhelpful and unwelcome.” Speaking in Washington today, the State Department spokesman, Sean McCormack, said flatly that Russia’s concerns — and its threat to target European sites — would not lead cancel the missile program, and he rejected the idea that it could lead to a new arms race. “It’s just not helpful, certainly surprising,” Mr. McCormack said, referring to Mr. Putin’s comments. “They have more the ring of 1977 than they do 2007, so you know, I don’t know quite what to make of it.” Mr. Putin said Russia would not stand back and allow Washington to expand its nuclear potential in Europe, even though the new interceptors that to deploy in Poland would not carry nuclear warheads. “Europe is being filled with new weapons,” Mr. Putin said, according to the transcript. “We ask ourselves what is going on.” He said the United States’ planned new installations would be an “inseparable part of the U.S. nuclear potential,” and said the Iranian missiles that America’s bases are intended to protect against “do not exist.” “If the American nuclear potential grows in European territory, we have to give ourselves new targets in Europe,” Mr. Putin was quoted as saying by Corriere della Sera, an Italian newspaper that took part in the interview. “It is up to our military to define these targets, in addition to defining the choice between ballistic and cruise missiles. But this is just a technical aspect.” Asked whether the American plan to build a missile defense shield in Eastern Europe would force Moscow to direct its own missiles against cities or American military targets in Europe, Mr. Putin replied, “Naturally, yes,” according to the newspaper. Der Spiegel, the German weekly newsmagazine, which also took part in the interview, reported that Mr. Putin had warned about the greater possibility of a nuclear conflict. There was little immediate international reaction to Mr. Putin’s criticisms. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who will host the Group of 8 meeting, wants to lower tensions ahead of the discussions, German diplomats and advisers said. But NATO criticized Mr. Putin’s comments. “These kind of comments are unhelpful and unwelcome,” James Appathurai, a spokesman for NATO, said. The differences over America’s plans for the missile shield are likely to dominate the talks in Europe. Ms. Merkel and Group of 8 leaders from Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Japan and been hoping that their meeting could reach a consensus over a separate issue, the future status of Kosovo, one of the last unresolved conflicts of the Balkan wars of the 1990s. has drawn up a plan that would pave the way for Kosovo to become independent from Serbia, ending the province’s status as a United Nations international protectorate. This arrangement has been in place since 1999. That independence would be supervised by the But Russia, which has veto power as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council , made it clear last week in Potsdam, Germany, at a meeting of Group of 8 foreign ministers that it did not accept the plan and instead wanted a resumption of talks between Serbia and Kosovo. The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, used that meeting to sharply criticize the missile defense plan. European diplomats said Mr. Putin’s blunt remarks were intended not only to sow divisions in Europe over the American missile defense plans but also to try to extract concessions over Kosovo. In Germany, Ms. Merkel’s partners in the coalition government, the Social Democrats, oppose the American plan and have even suggested that Germany pursue a policy of “equal distance” between Russia and the United States. But Ms. Merkel, the conservative leader of the Christian Democrats, has challenged Mr. Putin on several issues, including his views about the missile defense system. Ms. Merkel has personally told Mr. Putin that America’s plans are in no way directed against Russia. American officials have also repeatedly told Mr. Putin that Russia would be informed of every step along the way and could even visit the sites in Poland, where the interceptors would be based, and in the Czech Republic, where to deploy the radar system. Russia, however, has not taken up the offer of visiting the sites. Mr. Putin is due to visit talks with Mr. Bush on July 1 and 2. Judy Dempsey reported from Berlin, and Graham Bowley from New York. Brian Knowlton contributed reporting from Washington. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. AS TENSIONS RISE, U.S. AND MOSCOW FALTER ON TRADE THE WORLD; Russia's Back, and Raring to Roar, So No Lectures, Please Group of 8 Talks, Like So Much These Days, Are All About Energy: Russia's Gas and Oil Rights Activists Gather to Call for Russian Evolution &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/index.html The Breaking News, World News & Multimedia Monday, June 4, 2007 NYT Archive Since 1981 Judge Throws Out Charges in Guantánamo Prisoner Case The judge said there was a flaw in the procedure the military has used to file war crimes charges against Guantánamo detainees. Jury Selection Made Easier in Death Penalty Cases The court reinstated a death sentence for a rapist and murderer whose appeal over the exclusion of a juror had succeeded in lower courts. Times Topics: Supreme Court On the Record Books Columnist Dave Anderson reflects on the night Hank Aaron hit his 715th home run. Columnist Page: Dave Anderson Nadal Beats Hewitt to Reach Quarterfinal Two-time defending champion reached the final eight at the French Open without dropping a single set. U.S. Ponders Korea-Like Long Role in Iraq By DAVID E. SANGER For the first time, the Bush administration is publicly discussing basing American troops in Iraq for years. Bridge Bombing Raises Tensions » Democratic Lawmaker Is Indicted Representative William J. Jefferson of Louisiana was indicted today on corruption charges. The Caucus: Jefferson's Indictment In Video, Insurgents Claim 2 Missing G.I.’s Are Dead The video did not provide proof of whether the two missing soldiers were alive or dead. » Bush Goes to Europe in Wake of Putin’s Threat Bill France, Former Nascar Chairman, Dies Wheels: The Show Outside the Show The Lede: Who Gets a Wikipedia Entry? Caucus: Thompson Will Shadow G.O.P. Debate Talk to the Newsroom --> The Times’s Suzanne Daley is answering reader questions this week. Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) --> Do you think the hype about the iPhone is justified? Huckabee: Thompson Buzz Like Cartoon Court Backs Firms on Credit Notification Israel Museum Displays Rare Manuscript Zito, Klesko Lead Giants Past Phillies Five restaurants in Barcelona to keep you happy for a short trip. The Other Machu Picchu Choquequirao may be harder to get to. But without the crowds, it's worth the effort. Habitats: Aboard the Sarabande For a couple living on a 44-foot sloop, home is part of a plan to see the world. Audio Slide Show: Come Sail Away More in Real Estate Mortgage News and Rates Contract Signed. 96 Rockwell Place - Real ... See All Featured Properties Place a Classified Ad » A Long and Winding Road TVR, one of Britain’s last sports car makers, has risen again after several near-death experiences and ownership changes. Submit photos and comment on other readers' cars. Also, keep track of events Go to Photo Gallery Place a Classified Ad » Post a job online More in Job Market Browse jobs by industry Browse jobs by location For the Chronically Late, It’s Not a Power Trip Contrary to suspicions, most persistently tardy people are not aiming to annoy those around them. Place a Classified Ad » Find a Classifieds listing Home & Garden Directory Small Inns & Lodges Post a classifieds ad online Successful high-end design firm of museum quality collectibles seeks capital of $1.5mm to ......... Place a Classified Ad » SAVE 50% ON HOME DELIVERY Have The for you, for as little as $3.15 a week. Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial Photos, fine art, books and more. Earn 5.05% APY - Open a Complete Savings Acct from E*TRADE Bank Be Prepared. Fight ID Theft. Equifax Credit Watch™. Equifax.com China Releases Climate Change Plan Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal Former Leader Talks of Return to Pakistan, and Maybe Power Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia Romney’s Fortunes Tied to Business Riches Kevorkian Speaks After His Release From Prison News Analysis: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal Gates Cautious About Gains in Afghanistan N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Bloomberg Cast as Enemy No. 1 of Gun Rights A Mexican Baby Boom in New York Shows the Strength of a New Immigrant Group Robben Island Journal: Dinner Disappears, and African Penguins Pay the Price News Analysis: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes Bill Whitman, 92, Is Dead; Scoured the Earth for Rare Fruit New Liver Cancer Drug Is Promising, Doctors Say At-Home Fertility Screening Available for Men Cancer Experts Threatened After Opposing Drug Diplomas Denied Over Graduation Cheers U.S. Puts Limits on Lenders’ Ties to Universities Sketch Pad: Using Wood to Define an Open Space Streetscapes | East 73rd Street: On a Block of Stables, an Unexpected Restoration F.C.C. Rebuffed by Court on Indecency Fines Market Place: Family Dissidents Could Block Dow Jones Sale Everybody Talks About the Weather; All of a Sudden, It’s Controversial Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Palm Sells 25% Stake to Equity Firm in Revamping Waxing Philosophical, Booksellers Face the Digital Donovan Has Second Thoughts About Leaving Florida N.F.L. Suspends Tank Johnson for 8 Games A Great Horse, but Who Takes the Winnings? Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus Journeys | Rio de Janeiro: At Pan Am Games, Play It Safe and Enjoy The Other Machu Picchu Dining & Wine &#x00bb; So, Sweetie, I Quit to Bake Cupcakes Long Island: House Carries Storied Name but Is Defined by Steak Long Island Vines: Sauvignon Blancs by the Dozen Home & Garden &#x00bb; House Proud: Southern Gothic: Ghosts Welcome The Dirty Water Underground In the Garden: Reshaping Their Own Worldview Fashion & Style &#x00bb; Lower East Side Is Under a Groove Surf’s Up, but the Water Is Brown A Fly on the Gallery Wall Behind the Wheel | BMW 335i Convertible: A Grand Opening for BMW’s Quick-Tanning Machine Books Worth a Spot on a Car Buff’s Shelf Collecting: TVR’s Long and Winding Road Leads (for Now) to Florida Op-Ed Contributor: Show Us the Money Op-Ed Contributor: What Stroke Victims Don’t Know (6 Letters) Dance Review | 'The Sleeping Beauty': Wake Up, Princess, the Movies Are Calling The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Rock on, but Hang on to Your Literary Gigs Why the Silver Surfer Isn’t the Coin of the Realm Glorious Dissolution: Musicians on Film A High Life After Death? The Candy Man Can Theater Review | 'Crazy Mary': Bound by Blood, but Separated by a Breach in Sanity Leading Men Lead the Field: Five Riveting Performances Make for a Stiff Competition Directions: Hug, Smile, Schmooze, Repeat Waxing Philosophical, Booksellers Face the Digital 'No Excuses: Concessions of a Serial Campaigner,' by Robert Shrum: The Man Behind the Curtain: Political Strategy and Spin New York Observed: The Novelist and the Curious Cabbie Week in Review &#x00bb; Quivering: Sex, With Consequences A Television Audition for a Part in and of Life The World: Iraq’s Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Between a Mother and a Daughter When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky About the NYT Co. Jobs at the NYT Co. Add to your site Add Feeds Get York Times, as little as $3.15 a week. The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/05/sports/tennis/05tennis.html?ex=1338696000&en=9a563faaf5df474d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Nadal Continues His Clay-Court Dominance at French Open - Continues His Clay-Court Dominance at French Open Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 5, 2007 PARIS, June 4 — Dressed in his signature pirate outfit, bright blue, sweat-stained bandanna sitting above his brow, Rafael Nadal won his fourth-round match against Skip to next paragraph Rafael Nadal has not lost a set during the French Open this year. The victory brought him one step closer to his third consecutive French Open title, but also set up a match-up between him and his mentor and fellow Majorcan, 30-year-old , in the quarterfinals. Until now at Roland Garros, their only competition has been on PlayStation, in soccer, between rounds here. Their games have been fiery, but friendly. “You get so nervous, like if it was a tennis match,” Moya said. “But it’s good to have some fun. There’s a lot of pressure here, and it’s a way not to think about tennis.” Nadal wrote about those matches on his Internet blog, saying Moya was “quite good and assertive.” Both were assertive on the court on Monday, though, with Nadal having to work extra hard in the third set of his match. Hewitt was the first player Nadal has played here who is ranked inside the top 45. Hewitt, overwhelmed by Nadal’s forehands and the spins on them, lost the first two sets of their match, but he did not let go of the third set easily. He pushed that set to a tiebreaker, hit a forehand into the net to end the match. He said the sun had blinded him. Nadal won, 6-3, 6-1, 7-6 (5). “Early on, he was sort of in his own,” said Hewitt, the 14th seed. “It was hard for me to press or do anything against him. In the end, I just had to try to get some rhythm out of him, and try to make it a bit of a match in the third set.” Now Nadal will play his mentor on the men’s tour, Moya, who on Monday played a match pitting two players with a combined age of 65. Through it, Moya never felt his age. In the match against 35-year-old Jonas Bjorkman, Moya lunged after shots. He leaped in the air. He scurried every which way on Roland Garros’s red clay, as if it were 1998, the year he won the French Open. Nadal, who turned 21 on Sunday, was only 12 when Moya hoisted that trophy. “I’m the oldest guy left, but I still remember when I was the youngest,” said Moya, who is in fact the oldest player left in the men’s draw. “Time passes so quickly that you don’t realize it.” While Moya felt spry in the match he won, 7-6 (5), 6-2, 7-5, Bjorkman did not. He had already played two five-set matches at this tournament. He was the oldest male player to make it to the round of 16 since 1972. After the second set of the match, Bjorkman called for a trainer to work out the knot in his right shoulder. Then, he needed a painkiller. His body could feel even worse the next morning, he said. “It could be tough, sometimes, to put the socks on,” he said, adding that the ache he feels in his joints and muscles disappear much slower than they used to. While veterans Moya and Bjorkman played each other in the early match, Novak Djokovic, the youngest player left in the tournament, was trying to make it to the quarterfinals for the second year in a row. Last year, he played Nadal, but was forced to retire because of a back injury. He was two sets down at the time. But Djokovic, 20, feels healthy now and played his best match yet at this tournament, beating Fernando Verdasco, 6-3, 6-3, 7-6 (1). After playing a four-hour match against Frenchman Olivier Patience on Saturday, Djokovic bounced back to finish his match against Verdasco in 2 hours, 45 minutes. With that victory, he continued moving toward a semifinal meeting with Nadal, a clay court master. But Djokovic said he couldn’t look that far into the future. For now, he is happy simply to make it this far. He joins fellow Serbian players Jelena Jankovic and Ana Ivanovic, who advanced to the women’s quarterfinals on Sunday. “I didn’t come here with the goal to win the tournament, like that was my goal before I started to play,” said Djokovic, the sixth seed who moved into the top 10 in the rankings in March. “Like I said before, I am trying to go step by step, you know.” In another fourth-round match on Monday, Igor Andreev, the player who knocked No. 3 seed out of the tournament in the first round, beat Marcos Baghdatis, 2-6, 6-1, 6-3, 6-4. He will go on to play Djokovic in the quarterfinals. At the same time, Moya will have to pump himself up for Nadal, who has looked up to Moya for years. They have played five times, with Nadal up, 3-2. As motivation to make it past Nadal and closer to the final, Moya thinks of , who won the U.S. Open in 2005, when he was 35. “Of course, I can’t do the same. He is unique,” Moya said. “He’s a legend. But I’d like to approach the legend.” After winning their fourth-round matches on Sunday, neither seemed nervous for Tuesday’s match-up against each other. It is a rematch of the 2003 semifinal that caused Williams to break down in tears because an angry crowd began booing her. Williams was uncharacteristically loose during her news conference Sunday, where she arrived in head-to-toe hot pink, including her flip-flops, which where covered with pink and white rhinestones. She talked about how her life has always seemed difficult, including when she was in kindergarten and never was chosen as the “goose” in the childhood game of “duck, duck, goose.” She said it still hurts to talk about it. “I always wanted to be the goose because I was really fast,” she said. “So, the kids kept choosing their friends. I didn’t have many friends. I never got chosen unless it was about time for recess to be over with. “Man, I need to talk to a shrink about this,” she said, laughing. Next Article in Sports (1 of 26) To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Serbian Players Emerge From a Broken Country After Injuring Her Groin, Fifth-Seeded Mauresmo Loses Mauresmo Rallies and Carries the Flag to the Third Round FRENCH OPEN; Recuperating Sharapova Leads a Russian Advance Next Article in Sports (1 of 26) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
