http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/south_east/6708387.stm | South East Wales | Iraq death man 'planned to leave' News in video and audio GMT 14:49 death man 'planned to leave' Mr Clarke guarded convoys transporting food and medical supplies A security guard killed by a roadside bomb in Iraq had concerns about the company he was working for and planned to return home, an inquest has heard. Kenny Clarke, 39, from Brynmawr, Blaenau Gwent, was escorting lorries carrying ammunition north of Baghdad when his vehicle hit a landmine. The explosion in June 2006 killed the former Parachute Regiment corporal and two others inside. A verdict of unlawful killing was returned at the Newport inquest. During the hearing, Mr Clarke's wife Karen told how her husband was just days away from returning to the UK. The coroner was told Mr Clarke had joined the armed forces at the age of 21 and had served in Kosovo and Iraq before he retired in 2001. After being unable to find a job in the UK, Mr Clarke started work as a security guard with Securiforce in Iraq. Mrs Clarke said the work mainly involved transporting food and medical supplies. Six months later, he started work with Rover Global Services where he was in command of a small unit employed to guard ammunition convoys, the court was told. Mr Clarke was working as a security guard in Tikrit "He wasn't too happy with the circumstances surrounding the job, and the way the convoys were run," said Mrs Clarke. The coroner David Bowen said to her: "He expressed concern to you as to the way things were going out there, in particular the personal weapons being issued to him to carry out his job." Mrs Clarke told the hearing how her husband had planned to return home on 13 June with the intention of staying in the UK or returning to his previous employers, Securiforce. But just two days before he was due to return home, Mrs Clarke received a faxed letter from Rover Global Services that he had died in an explosion caused by "a roadside improvised device". The managing director of Rover Global Services, Robert Ryan, said in a statement read to the court that documents about Mr Clarke's death could not be found as the in-country manager at the time had since left. However, he said he was aware Mr Clarke had been leading a convoy of five vehicles that stopped at an American ammunition camp north of Baghdad on the night of 10 June. He said after they left the camp the following morning, the front vehicle struck a landmine, blowing up the vehicle. In the statement, Mr Ryan described the area as "dangerous", and said the road was "well-known to the enemy". "Everyone, including Mr Clarke, knew the dangers of working there," said Mr Ryan. Medical tests showed Mr Clarke had died from massive extensive full-body burns and his identity had to be confirmed by DNA tests. The coroner said: "The type of work he was doing was extremely hazardous. "You only have to turn on the television every day to see how hazardous it is. "No part of the country is safe." He said the device would have been laid by insurgents, with the "express aim of killing, or at least seriously maiming". out more about what is going on across the region Security guard dies in Iraq blast 14 Jun 06 | Wales Tributes to guard killed in Iraq 15 Jun 06 | Wales TOP SOUTH EAST WALES STORIES 'Stolen' Aborigine apology demand Iraq death man 'planned to leave' One of two missing girls is found
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6708183.stm | Nottinghamshire | Hitman jailed over pub shooting GMT 14:42 jailed over pub shooting The judge said McSally was "an incredibly dangerous man" A hitman who gunned down two men in Nottinghamshire on the orders of a criminal gang has been jailed for life. Patrick Marshall, 46, was shot dead outside the Park Tavern in Basford in February 2004. Derrick Senior was shot on his driveway but survived. John McSally, 50, of Plaza Gardens, Basford, was convicted of murder and attempted murder at Leicester Crown Court on Thursday. McSally, who denied the charges, was ordered to serve a minimum of 35 years. Even by the warped standards of those who enforce their will by violence these were evil offences Mr Marshall was gunned down in the car park of the Park Tavern pub on 8 February 2004 - three months before Mr Senior was shot. The court heard Patrick Marshall, who was wrongly suspected of being an informant, had arranged to meet his killer, who he thought was going to sell him a gun. Youth worker Derrick Senior was shot days after he helped to jail four men who carried out a racist attack on him in a pub. The court was told the convicted men were part of a gang, who then wanted revenge by ordering McSally to "send him a message". He was shot five times through the window of his car as he reversed down his driveway on Harmston Rise, Basford. Prosecutor Timothy Spencer said Mr Senior survived the ordeal by "playing dead" and slumping forward on to the wheel of his car. Mr Justice Pitchers, said McSally was an "incredibly dangerous" man. He said: "Even by the warped standards of those who enforce their will by violence these were evil offences. Patrick Marshall was shot dead outside the Park Tavern "Patrick Marshall has done nothing to deserve any sort of attack, let alone to be summarily executed by you with a firearm. "Derrick Senior is a thoroughly decent, law-abiding member of the community who had done nothing more than wish to see justice done in a case where he had been subjected to a racial attack." McSally, who did not react to the verdict told the judge the sentence would be "no problem". Craig McKay, 33, of Derby Road, Stapleford, was cleared of Mr Marshall's murder on Friday. Mr McKay's girlfriend Sally Weetman, 37, also of Derby Road, Stapleford, was also cleared of perverting the course of justice. AND AUDIO NEWS Hitman jailed for life Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham Man cleared of murder outside pub 25 Men on trial on pub death charges 19 Apr 07 | Nottinghamshire Second man charged in pub murder 24 Aug 06 | Nottinghamshire Reward offered in shooting case 08 Feb 05 | Nottinghamshire jailed over pub shooting Woman died following hysterectomy Alliance Boots takeover approved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lancashire/6709135.stm | Lancashire | Boy's custody death was suicide GMT 16:41 custody death was suicide Adam Rickwood had a history of mental health problems A boy found dead at a privately-run secure unit 150 miles from his home committed suicide, a jury has ruled. Adam Rickwood, 14, became the youngest person to die in custody in Britain in modern times, in 2004. Adam, from Burnley, Lancashire, was on remand at the Hassockfield Secure Training Unit, County Durham. He wrote to his mother saying he would kill himself if forced to stay in the unit, the jury at Chester-le-Street Magistrates' Court heard. Jurors deliberated for almost a week after the month-long hearing. Adam was found dead about a month after being sent on remand to the unit, in July 2004. He had suffered from mental health problems, drink and drug abuse and had suicidal tendencies, Chester-le-Street Magistrates' Court heard. The last letter the teenager wrote to his mother was read to the jury. It said: "I need to be at home with you. I need to be at home in my own bed or my head will crack up. "I will probably try to kill myself and I will probably succeed this time. I can't stay in here." and features on the BBC's Lancashire website Travel, leisure, webcams and much more from the BBC website for Wear Teenager's family in inquest call 27 Oct 06 | Lancashire Custody death probe changes urged 02 Nov 04 | UK Funeral of custody death teenager 18 Aug 04 | Lancashire 'Child jails' put under spotlight 11 Aug 04 | England Inquiry call after custody death 10 Aug 04 | England custody death was suicide Missing teenager 'was strangled' Woman quizzed over fatal stabbing
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6708251.stm Ireland | Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut GMT 13:40 Fein's Policing Board debut Daithi McKay, Martina Anderson and Alex Maskey of Sinn Fein Sinn Fein has taken its seats on the Policing Board for the first time. Alex Maskey, Martina Anderson and Daithi McKay represent the party, which voted in January to back police in Northern Ireland for the first time. Mr Maskey described Sinn Fein's participation as a significant step forward to ensure accountable policing. Sir Desmond Rea and Barry Gilligan were re-elected as chairman and vice chairman. Sir Desmond said NI was "entering a new era in policing". "This new board will continue to ensure for all the people of Northern Ireland an accountable, effective, efficient and impartial police service," he added. BOARD MEMBERS IN FULL Prof Sir Desmond Rea Mr Gilligan said the new board's priority was "engaging communities and building public confidence in policing". Irish Republic Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern said Sinn Fein coming on board marked another new and positive phase for policing in Northern Ireland. "The Policing Board has played a pivotal role in building confidence across both communities in the new policing arrangements and in paving the way for recent breakthroughs at the political level," he said. The DUP is the largest political party on the board, with four members. Sinn Fein has three seats, the Ulster Unionists have two, and the SDLP has one. The board also has a number of independents. Board holds last meeting 02 Ireland SF policing board nominees named 23 Apr 07 | Northern Ireland Sinn Fein in Policing Board first 16 Apr 07 | Northern Ireland District policing support urged 14 Jun 06 | Northern Ireland DUP seeks Policing Board changes 08 Oct 05 | Northern Ireland NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6706787.stm | Blair's farewell tour blasted GMT 06:08 farewell tour blasted There is a note of disapproval in the coverage of Tony Blair's Africa tour in Thursday's papers. is unimpressed by Mr Blair's elevation to an honorary paramount chief in Sierra Leone. Richard Littlejohn calls him "Bwana Blair" and compares him with a "munificent emperor surveying the outposts of his crumbling realm". says Africa is a "convenient backdrop to the glorified photo-shoot" of his farewell tour. Gerry and Kate McCann presenting the Pope with a picture of their daughter, Madeleine, makes several front pages. says Mrs McCann drew some comfort from a butterfly which landed on her hair just before the meeting, seeing it as a "symbol of hope". 's Amanda Platell urges the McCanns to reconsider their publicity campaign. She says the couple's "sustained public anguish" is "almost unwatchable" and threatens to destroy its very purpose. It may be a strong candidate for the most reviled TV show in Britain, but the tabloids cannot ignore the start of a new series of Big Brother. The all-female cast promises to be "the sexiest ever", the categorises them as lust-fuelled twins, groovy grans and a trippy hippy. says that with 11 women in the house, the series highlight could be the fight for a hairdryer. Two of Thursday's papers carry very different diagnoses of the state of the country's housing market. says Land Registry figures suggest the market is in rude health with house prices soaring by 9%. says the rise is distorted by conditions in London and prices are, in fact, falling in four of the 10 Land Registry districts. The paper concludes that the 11-year boom in England and Wales could finally be at an end. in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/north_east/6708189.stm | North East/N Isles | Death driver 'was visiting grave' GMT 16:21 driver 'was visiting grave' Paul Nicholl's grandfather was buried on Monday A teenager who died after his car crashed and was then hit by a train may have been visiting his grandfather's grave, it has been revealed. Paul Nicholl, 19, was driving his new BMW along the A95 near Keith on Tuesday night when the car left the road. It landed upside down next to the Aberdeen to Inverness line. Relatives said Mr Nicholl was "one in a million". His grandfather was buried on Monday and his mother said it was unusual for her son to be on that road. It was very unusual for him to be on that road and I wonder if he had been to the cemetery Apprentice joiner Mr Nicholl, from Keith, was cut free from the wreckage but was pronounced dead at the scene. Police said the car appeared to have somersaulted several times after leaving the road, following a spell of heavy rain. The railway line and the A95 were both closed for several hours following the accident. Slight damage was caused to the train, which was heading north and no passengers were injured. Mr Nicholl's mother Sheila said: "He was super, I wouldn't have changed him for the world. "He was very close to his sisters and younger brother and had a wide circle of friends who described him as one of the best friends they ever had. He was also very close to all his other relatives. "He had been keen to get this car for some time He had only had it for three weeks and was so proud of it." Grampian Police are investigating the accident It was the second sadness the family endured this week, as Mrs Nicholl buried her father, Bob Legge, on Monday. She believes Mr Nicholl may have been returning home from visiting his grandfather's grave when the accident happened. She said: "He always came home by a different route. It was very unusual for him to be on that road and I wonder if he had been to the cemetery." Grampian Police Inspector Ian Kirkwood said: "This was a particularly horrific crash which could have had horrendous consequences had the vehicle come to rest on the rail tracks. "Thankfully the train made only a glancing blow to the BMW and train passengers were probably unaware of the incident." Police have been appealing for witnesses to contact them. crash car lands on railway 30 East/N Isles Grampian Fire and Rescue Service NORTH EAST/N ISLES STORIES Teenager cleared over man's death Death driver 'was visiting grave' Police uniform stripper in court
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6708705.stm | 21/7 accused 'had explosive list' GMT 15:42 accused 'had explosive list' Adel Yahya is one of six men who deny terrorism charges One of the 21 July terror suspects kept a list of explosives on a CD Rom seized by the authorities, a court has heard. Adel Yahya, 24, of Tottenham, north London, also stored a book titles relating to chemical and biological warfare, Woolwich Crown Court was told. Mr Yahya said he signed a property list confirming he owned the CD Rom only because he feared it would be stolen. Mr Yahya and five other men all deny conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions likely to endanger life. The CD Rom was seized when Mr Yahya was arrested in Ethiopia in November 2005 following a request by UK authorities. He told the court that the item, which contained a large Excel spreadsheet with 97 chapters written in English, belonged to his uncle in Ethiopia. One chapter listed details of explosives; another chemicals and a third book titles, including Aircraft Safety, Terrorist Target Selection, Biological Warfare, Chemical Warfare Agents and Jihad: The Origin of the Holy War in Islam. Another chapter, about chemicals and fertiliser, included 29 sources of hydrogen peroxide in concentrations of 27.5% to 50%. Max Hill, prosecuting, said: "Your role in this conspiracy included using your knowledge to set about obtaining the highest concentration you and your co-defendants could find." Mr Yahya denied knowing about the list and said: "What you are saying is absolute rubbish." Mr Yahya admitted he asked about the highest percentage concentration of hydrogen peroxide sold at a cosmetics shop in Finsbury Park, north London, twice in May and June 2005. He said he did it because that was what co-defendant Yassin Omar wanted him to ask. Mr Yahya said the chemical was needed for bleaching wood. But Mr Hill accused him of wanting a higher percentage to make explosives. "The truth is Mr Yahya, you were the man who was in charge then, weren't you?" said Mr Hill. Mr Yahya went on holiday to Ethiopia with his wife on 11 June 2005. He is one of six men accused of taking part in an extremist Muslim plot to carry out a series of suicide bombings on the London's public transport network in 2005. In the dock are Ramzi Mohammed, 25, of North Kensington, west London; Hussain Osman, 28, of no fixed address; Muktar Said Ibrahim, 29, from Stoke Newington, north London; Mr Omar, 26, from New Southgate, north London; Mr Yahya; and Manfo Kwaku Asiedu, 34, of no fixed address. JULY 'BOMB PLOT' TRIAL Accused's daily prayer 'apology' Man heard Abu Hamza sermons Accused admits 21/7 idea 'stupid' 21/7 accused 'is absolute liar' PREVIOUS NEWS FROM TRIAL Accused in Muslim bias claim Accused 'a desperate man' 'Allah instructed' 21/7 suspect Defendant's call to Gordon Brown Suspect relives burka flight What the prosecution say the defendants did on 21 July 2005 Weeks 7 and 8 Weeks 12 - 14 Weeks 15 - 17 Weeks 18 - 19 in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/manchester/6707509.stm | Manchester | GMT 12:20 chairs were installed in 2006 (photo from MEN Syndication) Firefighters in Greater Manchester are facing disciplinary action over claims they slept on a station floor instead of their new reclining chairs. Three men, based in Bury, are being investigated for "involvement in the use of unauthorised rest facilities". It is claimed they broke regulations by using sleeping bags on the floor rather than the £400 chairs. The chairs were installed as part of modernisation programme to replace all beds in the region's 41 fire stations. The Fire Brigades Union (FBU) said the men were all asleep as a team of inspectors from the fire service carried out a spot check early one morning. Obviously what we are looking for is for common sense to prevail "We have now christened them the furniture police," said Manchester regional secretary Kevin Brown. Mr Brown said the service launched an investigation into the incident and the men were due to appear before a level three disciplinary hearing on 14 June. "A level three hearing leaves open the possibility for dismissal - this is how ludicrous this is," said Mr Brown. "Obviously what we are looking for is for common sense to prevail. "These people work a 15-hour night shift and they are entitled to take rest periods." Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service said the inquiry concerned "involvement in the use of unauthorised rest facilities". "A full internal investigation into this matter is under way and no further comment can be made at this time," a spokesman said. The service bought more than 300 of the chairs last year after chiefs decided to remove beds from dormitories across the region. But firefighters were not allowed to sit or lie on the devices before reading a four-page health and safety manual. and features on the BBC's Manchester website Chair 'danger' for firefighters 27 Jan 06 | Manchester Fire service beds to be scrapped 26 Mar 05 | Manchester Fire service shake-up unveiled 13 Jan 04 | UK Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service Salford move gets green light widening report welcomed
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/manchester/6708383.stm | Manchester | BBC Salford move gets green light GMT 14:55 Salford move gets green light The centrepiece will be a piazza twice the size of Trafalgar Square The BBC's proposed move of five departments from London to the north-west of England has been given the go-ahead. Five Live and BBC Sport are among those being relocated to the mediacity:uk development at Salford Quays. The BBC Trust has approved the terms of the deal. Work on the site will begin within days and be completed by 2011. BBC director general Mark Thompson said he was "delighted" the move was now "firmly on the road to reality". The BBC Trust reached agreement with the developer Peel Holdings over the detailed terms under which it will occupy buildings in the mediacity:uk development. Mr Thompson, added: "I'm delighted that the BBC's vision for its expanded presence in the North of England is now firmly on the road to reality. "I'm excited by the plans and believe they have a key part to play in the BBC's future. "The modern, multimedia broadcast and production centre in Salford will shift the BBC's centre of gravity away from London, bringing a range of creative benefits to us and, I hope, helping us to better reflect and represent the whole of the UK. "I'm glad that the BBC Trust agreed that this project represents value for money for licence fee payers and that we are now able to proceed." The BBC will move five London-based departments, including two television channels and two radio networks, to Salford Quays. They are: BBC Children's (including CBBC and CBeebies television and radio) Parts of BBC Future Media & Technology (including BBC Research & Development) BBC Radio Five Live (including Five Live Sports Extra) The move will see approximately 1,500 London-based posts will relocating to Salford Quays in 2011. Around 800 staff currently based at the BBC in Manchester will also move to the new site. Caroline Thomson, chief operating officer of the BBC, said: "I'm delighted that we have now finalised the terms for the BBC's presence at the mediacity:uk development. "This is a really exciting project for us all and I look forward to working with colleagues in Peel Holdings and the development consortium to turn the vision into a reality." and features on the BBC's Manchester website Proposed BBC site plans approved 23 Apr 07 | Manchester BBC bosses mull Manchester sites 21 Oct 05 | TV and Radio BBC seeks increase to licence fee 11 Oct 05 | TV and Radio Q&A: The future of the BBC 11 Oct 05 | TV and Radio Future of the BBC Salford move gets green light widening report welcomed
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6707847.stm | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Three people killed in M40 crash GMT 14:24 people killed in M40 crash Three people have been killed and 11 have been injured in a crash on the M40 in Buckinghamshire. Between six and eight vehicles are believed to have been involved in the collision, at Loudwater flyover, near High Wycombe. The crash happened on the southbound carriageway between junctions four and three, but affected the whole road. Police said the M40 remained closed in both directions in the area and was not expected to re-open until 1630 BST. Motorists have been advised to avoid the area. One casualty was airlifted to hospital and the other 10 taken by ambulance, police said. Police said investigations into the collision were ongoing, adding that it appeared a lorry had crossed the central reservation and collided with vehicles travelling the other way. Insp Steve Bridges said: "We are especially interested in anyone who saw a white flatbed lorry loaded with blue pallets travelling northbound from the M25 to junction three at High Wycombe." Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more people killed in M40 crash £3m mobile phone raid near M-way Newcastle consider Ashley offer
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/6707873.stm | GMT 14:47 forces across the country are cracking down on tinted car windows. But what's driving the craze among drivers for a darkened view of the road? So there you are waiting at the lights in your standard-spec Ford Focus when another car pulls alongside. It appears the driver wants to share his music with you... and the rest of the neighbourhood. But when you glance around, it seems he doesn't particularly want you to see inside his car. His windows are tinted. They are as dark as his alloy hubcaps are bright. There are criminals who seek to hide behind the windows - the question is, what have you got to hide? Over the last two years, police forces as far afield as Northern Ireland, Devon, Manchester and Strathclyde have been cracking down on tinted windows. The law states front windows must allow 70% of light through; the front windscreen 75%. Yet there are illegal tints out there letting as little as 5% light through. Traffic officers believe such excessive tints are potentially dangerous, particularly at night, and they are increasingly armed with optical meters. In Manchester, more than 2,000 fixed penalty notices have been issued to drivers of cars with excessively tinted windows since October 2006. Police have handed out 520 prohibitions, forcing drivers to take their cars off the roads while they have their windows restored, 80 of which were in the last fortnight. Pc Dave Barrow, of Greater Manchester Police, says offenders break down into three groups. Fans try to emulate their limousine-carried idols "There's the innocent purchaser of a nice car where the garage have said we can tint the windows so it looks nicer. There are criminals who seek to hide behind the windows. The question is, what have you got to hide? "Then there are the cars with loud music blaring and tinted windows are a bit of a fashion accessory." Forces cite the fall-out from a serious accident involving a motorcycle and a car with heavily tinted windows, as the impetus for this current crackdown. Peter Grunert, deputy editor of Top Gear magazine, blames an increasingly celebrity-obsessed media for driving "People want some of that. Cachet is reflected in the cars they drive," he says. "Super-sized chrome rims, massive sound systems, DVD, and mystery glass, the full package. An element of that is coming over to the UK." Go on a website advertising tinted windows and you'll see references to "a touch of distinction", and products like "light smoke", "midnight" and "limo". Without tinting you can see the seats and the rubbish strewn everywhere Mark Needham, who promotes custom cars events, says tinted windows are the first port of call for any aspirant boy racer. He has them on his own car. "It makes the car look a lot more stylish. Without tinting, you can see the seats and the rubbish strewn everywhere. You modify as much as you can within the law. But some people push the boundaries a lot," says Mr Needham. The trend for even subtle tinting is a recent one. Once they were a swanky optional extra in the 1980s. Now most new cars come with almost the maximum legal tint as standard. Anything beyond that tends to be added by specialist fitters, using films on the inside of windows. Tom Hardyment, general manager of tint and security film specialists Pentagon, says his firm does 4,000 car tints a year. But it's a myth that boy racers are driving demand. Instead, the typical customer is an affluent mother with small 4x4 or people carrier, who wants the back windows done to save the kids from sunburn and stop them getting grumpy in the heat. Other customers are government and business. Rapper Busta Rhymes was pulled over for excessively tinted windows "It is growing, corresponding to sales of small SUVs. They are greenhouses on wheels. People like it, it protects their kids, they can watch their DVDs. It's 60% practical, 40% cosmetic. You've got a few people running around who reckon they are hoodies, running around spoiling it. People who have tinted front windows - it's stupid and illegal." But he still thinks a little dash of darkening is aesthetically pleasing. "You can pretty much pick any car you like and the press shots will have very heavily tinted windows, including the windscreen. It lowers the roofline, gives it a more sporty look." Kevin Wing, owner of the Tinted Windows Company in Watford, says the link between tinting and crime is a myth and instead points to supposed environmental benefits. "It makes the car run more economically because you don't use so much air conditioning. I get a lot of customers who say I don't want to look like a drug dealer. But that's a myth. It would be a bit like having a robber with swag written on his bag. My main customer is a woman with a multi-passenger vehicle." But Mr Wing admits he tints front windows and windscreens at levels greater than the law allows to be driven on the roads, insisting that many of his customers are using cars in adverts or shows. "I try to angle people into having the legal limit... It is entirely up to you what you do with your vehicle on the highway. How can you tell if someone's going to use it for a show purpose or not?" But just as police are getting wise to the trend, Steve Chalmers, editor of Fast Car magazine, says drivers' interest is starting to wane. "I've been in cars with the heavy tints and it's very claustrophobic. I would say it is starting to die out slowly. It was a big thing a few years back." Send us your comments using the form below. "Instead, the typical customer is an affluent mother with small 4x4 or people carrier, who wants the back windows done to save the kids from sunburn" Most ultraviolet radiation is blocked by glass. In particular those with shorter wavelengths, (UVB rays) do not pass through glass. Since UVB is the primary cause of redness and sunburn, I am at a loss why the children of these Chelsea-tractor driving mothers are defying the laws of physics and getting sunburnt through the window. Of course, the concerned parent could be worried about the effects of UVA rays, which have longer wavelengths and can make it through glass. UVA rays can cause skin ageing and research is now demonstrating that it may also be a risk factor for skin cancer and in addition to this some tinting process can make windows impenetrable to UVA rays. However UVA rays do not cause sunburn. However, anyone who has sat through a GCSE physics lesson on ultraviolet should already know all this¿ Jonathan Pearson, Towcester, U.K. There are regular arguments over tinting on automotive internet forums - people whining about getting pulled over because they've got their front windows tinted - it's like complaining because you've been pulled over for speeding - it's illegal, you've knowingly done something illegal and you've been caught. Shut up, frankly. Quite why those people who tint their front windows are so ashamed of being seen out in their vehicle is a total mystery to me. You can't get sunburn through glass. Although hats off to the fitter who takes a bundle off the 4x4 owner who doesn't know this. My brother had his windows tinted because he doesn't want to wear a seat-belt!! Pete, Stratford upong Avon The link between criminality and tinted windows is just a myth. It's simply another revenue-making scheme for the police; yes, if your windows allow less than 70% of light through, you're technically breaking the law, but then if you gamble for money in your own home, you're also technically breaking the law. I really wish the police would spend less time on things like this and more time on the important issues affecting this country. I admit that my windows are tinted more than the current law allows (they were like this when I purchased the car) but they in no way impede my ability to see... I think you'd have to have something like a 75% tint for it to actually prevent you from seeing properly. It does, however, impede people outside my car from seeing in and, let's face it, that's my personal choice. I have the windows tinted on my LWB 4x4, from the B pillar back, all legal. It makes it look better and stops prying eyes looking into the back. My mother has even ordered tints on her new vehicle. I totally agree with the police crack down on these illegal side window tints. As a motorcyclist it's hard enough to be seen, but when someone is looking out of a side window with a limo tint on it their vision is vastly reduced and you have no eye contact with the driver. There is a car driving around my home town with very dark tins on all the windows and the driver also have three quarters of his windscreen tinted from the top down! That car on a country road, a pedestrian with dark cloths on or a broken down or badly parked vehicle, well, disaster waiting to happen. John Rymer, Carrickfergus. N. Ireland I live in the Middle East where many cars are very heavily tinted, either to keep out the sun or for reasons of modesty. The tints are lethal and are well established here as the cause of many severe accidents. There have been countless occasions when drivers have gone through red lights - with fatal consequences - because the tint alters the appearance of colours. Not only that, but being unable to see a driver pulling up to a junction as you drive along a main road means you cannot make eye contact and you cannot read body language to gauge their intentions. Finally anyone who has been a passenger in a heavily tinted car at night - I have - knows that it makes pedestrians harder to see. The blazing sun is partly an excuse for tints in the Middle East - there's no such excuse in the UK. Lesley Cain, Dubai, UAE What a refeshing change - car drivers being penalised for illegal tints. It's usually the (mainly) law-abiding motorcyclist who bears the brunt of the heavy-handed approach often adopted by the police for daring to wear a tinted visor for daytime riding in order to avoid being dazzled by the sun. Most are not illegal and a spare, clear visor is carried for when light and visibilty are reduced. Obviusly, this is so that we can ride safely and sunglasses are not always convenient. When learning to ride my bike a useful tip was to use other vehicles waiting alongside me at junctions as windows in order to obtain a clear view of the traffic around me (useful advice for car drivers, too). However, this is impossible when surrounded by a growing number or cars with "blacked-out" windows and it's even harder to see around large 4x4s and people carriers . Tinted windows have been around since at least 1973. I remember the DIY paint-on kits and stick on film that you could buy, but even then there was a legal limit to how to dark they were allowed to be. Susan Richards, Penarth, South Glam. Tinted windows prevent a clear view of the other driver and thus facial expressions, gestures ¿ eye contact in general, often valuable indicators to the other's intention. In a complicated driving environment such clues are essential. John Davis, Manchester, UK/Philadelphia, USA As a cyclist/motorcyclist, I find it very useful to look drivers in the eye when they are waiting at junctions, to confirm that I have indeed been noticed. Tinted windows prevent this and are therefore dangerous from my point of view. Many years ago (probably ten) people could drive what car they wanted in any colour they wanted without being labelled. Nowadays everything is aimed against car drivers, whether it be tinted windows, 4x4s, or where you are allowed to drive or park. We now live in a country where the police are only interested in motorists and the minority tell the majority exactly how and what they are allowed to do. I think complaining about tints is just another way of pursuing motorists whilst avoiding real causes. There are many benefits to tinted windows, as mentioned above, reduced glare, cooler ambient temperatures, and better protection to vehicle interiors. I haven't seen anyone stopped for their sunglasses to be checked and these often allow less light through than window tints. Where does the law stand on that? "I get a lot of customers who say I don't want to look like a drug dealer [...] My main customer is a woman with a multi-passenger vehicle." Seriously though, this protest smacks of racial profiling: no-one can "conceal their identity" from the police because they can check your plates... But how will they know if a car's being driven by a young black man if they can't see through the windows? All windows on all cars should be clear plain glass, with 0% of allowable tint. The sun screen and enviormental reasons are simply excuses to 'hide' Richard Gullick, Halesowen West Midlands The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. to limit C02 emissions? You're not going to like this... Sign of the times The dash for 'no smoking' signs YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN The decade when everything started to change - Andrew Marr on the 60s Send your memories of the 60s See your memories of the 50s Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: of today's papers VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX Rapper Rhymes in driving arrest 03
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6699869.stm | url link 29 May 2007, 08:09 GMT 09:09
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6702315.stm | Ethics of reality TV 30 May 2007, 12:45 GMT 13:45 of reality TV Last year's winner had Tourette's - what twist is in store this time? The Big Brother circus is starting again, with even a "topsy turvy" house to toy with its contestants' minds. As the makers of reality TV shows seek new ways to shock, ethicists Daniel Sokol and James Wilson evaluate the fall-out. Reality TV thrives on extreme circumstances. In the past week, Dutch programme makers have faced censure for a show in which the prize is a life-saving kidney, and Australian Big Brother for keeping a contestant in the dark when her father died. The mind games look set to continue with the UK's eighth series of Big Brother about to start. As well as entertainment, the series is an experiment into human behaviour. Yet, unlike research which uses human participants, there are no ethical safeguards to minimise the risks to those involved. All medical research must be reviewed by an independent ethics committee. And in education, universities usually require even undergraduate students to get "ethics approval" if a project involves human participants. Compete for a kidney? Projects that would be rejected by the most lenient of ethics committees appear regularly on our TV screens. Contestants may be asked by authority figures to perform acts which may be distressing or humiliating, and which may be difficult to refuse. A refusal may lead to eviction, criticism by fellow contestants, losing a privilege or incurring some other kind of penalty. Contestants may also worry about the reaction of the viewing public and its impact on their reputation and career prospects. They may feel coerced to do something they would not otherwise do. In research involving humans, consent is vital. In reality TV, however, contestants' consent to participate may be grossly inadequate. Are they provided with enough information to make an informed decision, or are some important details deliberately downplayed or withheld? Space Cadets: The joke's on you Some reality TV shows rely on deception for their success. Contestants may mistakenly believe they are in a spacecraft, or that they are talking in confidence when other contestants can hear every word. Therein lies the entertainment. Another concern is whether consent is truly voluntary. Cash prizes may be irresistible carrots which blind them to the implications of their participation. The prospect of fame, celebrity interviews, pictures in glossy magazines and invitations to glamorous parties may further undermine their ability to think rationally. How do we know if the participants are competent to take part? Some have appeared on the edges of sanity and, in at least one instance, a contestant threatened to commit suicide. We may wonder whether the pre-show psychological assessment is screening unstable individuals out, or in. Whether or not qualified psychologists should get involved is a related question, especially as they know such projects would never be approved in an academic setting. Should their professional ethics forbid their participation? There are many other ethical considerations, such as in what circumstances should the show be stopped or modified? What kind of support or counselling will be provided for the contestants afterwards? Danielle Lloyd makes up with Shilpa Shetty post-Celebrity Big Brother The recent dilemma faced by the Australian Big Brother producers, when a contestant's father died while she was in the house, reflects the need to consider such ethical issues in advance. It seems inconsistent to require ethics approval to protect participants in medical and educational contexts, but not reality TV shows. The fact that something is to be broadcast as entertainment does not remove the duty to treat other human beings decently. Independent ethics committees, made up of people from production companies, broadcasting, academic institutions and the general public, could be set up to evaluate reality TV proposals. These could critically review proposals, suggest changes if necessary or reject projects outright. This will not mean the death of the genre, but producers will need to consider their ethical responsibilities before proposing ever more daring shows. Some may think "ah, but these shows won't be fun anymore". But the committee's role would not be to reduce the entertainment value, but to ensure that it doesn't come at too high a moral cost. If people want to take part in potentially painful or embarrassing shows, that's up to them, but they should understand what they are signing up for. And surely we should not tolerate ill treatment for the sake of entertainment. In medicine, regulations and codes of ethics followed the revelation of highly unethical research conducted during World War II. In reality TV, contestants will not be injected with cholera or forced to drink sea water, as in the Nazi medical experiments of the 1940s. But the risk of severe harm, especially psychological distress, remains. Dr Daniel Sokol and Dr James Wilson are lecturers in ethics at Keele University. Below is a selection of your comments. Humans are always curious to see other peoples' behaviour and reactions. Long standing TV soaps prove this point as they are based on normal everyday events that people can relate to. Shows such as Big Brother further extend this reach into human curiosity. However, by controlling functions in their environment does not represent reality TV as a certain reaction is almost guaranteed by the participants. Martin John, Cairo, Egypt We have enough nannying from the Government as it is - without having to introduce measures designed to cater for those few individuals who are not able to weigh up the pros & cons of being a contestant on a reality show. I would hope (& assume) that producers go to great lengths to ensure that participants understand exactly what they are letting themselves in for when signing up. Matt G Baish, Cheltenham, UK The BB contestants know exactly what they are getting into, and they can always walk out as many do. Many do it for their 5 minutes of fame, others hoping to launch a media career whatever the cost. There are two types of people who complain about BB, experts and viewers unable to operate the off button. Neither group seems to have any argument which stands up to analysis. The recent racism row and the subsequent accusations of the production company "burying" unsavoury footage clearly show the programme makers' concern is on ratings rather than the housemates' well being. The Quiet Man, Warrington What rubbish. Contestants on BB know exactly what they are letting themselves in for and have done ever since series 2; they choose to do it because they know that the fame and fortune are worth it. Geoff Winkless, Leicestershire, UK Surely there is a simple answer to anyone suffering ethical concerns about reality TV? Just don't watch it. What is the point in vetting a reality TV program it would defeat the whole purpose of it being a REALITY program, plus it would be boring. Outrageous people and how they behave is the reason why we all watch it. They know the risks of entering the house and they know they can pull out at any time so situations never have to become so bad I think every last detail of what goes on should be explicit and the participants informed of this in detail and in advance of the filming. Only by removing the uncertainty and thus the so called entertainment from these reality shows can we finally get rid of the genre and get back to quality entertainment. to limit C02 emissions? You're not going to like this... Sign of the times The dash for 'no smoking' signs YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN The decade when everything started to change - Andrew Marr on the 60s Send your memories of the 60s See your memories of the 50s Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: of today's papers VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/default.stm 4's PM programme GMT 17:10 UK Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. The man accused of murder 'Tense relations' over case Increase in anti-terror targets The number of potential targets placed under surveillance by counter-terror police increases by 37%. Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS A non-nicotine drug specifically designed to help smokers quit is approved for use on the NHS. Blair issues Africa action call Tories deny grammars 'disarray' Number of failing schools up 5% 21/7 accused 'had explosive list' Boy's custody death was suicide Mortgage approvals hit year low EMI strikes a deal with YouTube ALSO IN THE NEWS Why a sleepy fire crew faces the sack for shunning a chair Man Utd seal deal for Hargreaves Football: 'NI choose' Worthington What has Tony Blair achieved in four African trouble-spots? Premiership footballers worth £200,000 a week? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Campaign to axe plastic bags Search for Britons continues Schools get knife search power More Video / Audio News TV AND RADIO PROGRAMMES BBC One O'Clock News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Headlines from BBC News 24 Bolivia kicks off Fifa protest MORE FROM THE UK Coulson to be Tories' press chief Hitman jailed over pub shooting Cardinal sounds abortion warning BBC Salford move gets go-ahead School power to search for knives UK soldier dies in Afghan crash Three people killed in M40 crash Boy racers, celebs and anxious mums in 4x4s... Roll up, roll up Want to limit C02 emissions? Blair's farewell tour blasted MP fined over disabled parking 'Hero' gun victim making progress Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims Witness appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' Morgan reveals assembly cabinet Mother saw family diving deaths All churches should stay out of politics. They should stick to what they know best Pope meets parents of Madeleine Migrants' road to UK integration Denial over Diana crash images Madeleine parents to see the Pope Sighting significant say McCanns A new series of Big Brother becomes Big Sister... A school tells why it introduced airport style search wands Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6709071.stm Ireland | NI man denies Turkey fraud claims GMT 16:13 man denies Turkey fraud claims A County Londonderry man being investigated in Turkey over an alleged property fraud has denied he has been involved in any wrongdoing. Kevin O'Kane, from the Bellaghy area, has had his passport confiscated by Turkish police. They are investigating claims that dozens of investors have been swindled. Mr O'Kane's solicitor said his client "is himself a victim of the fraud and has lost well over a quarter of a million pounds." It is understood Mr O'Kane was taken to Bodrum for questioning before being released on bail. The alleged fraud involves the false marketing of luxury villas. The authorities are also seeking a Turkish national for questioning. of Foreign Affairs Kurdish Human Rights Project NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6707929.stm | South Asia | Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' GMT 14:20 'downed Nato helicopter' Nato says one of its helicopters that crashed in the southern Afghan province of Helmand on Wednesday may have been shot down by the Taleban. Seven people died in the crash, five of them US crew. Two military passengers - one British, one Canadian - also died. Nato-led troops are fighting militants nearby. Dozens of Taleban were killed or injured, Afghan officials say. Elsewhere, at least 16 policemen died in a Taleban ambush in southern Zabul province, the interior ministry said. Fighting between Nato-led security forces and the Taleban has escalated in recent weeks - particularly in the south. Nato is still investigating the cause of Wednesday's crash, but says it looks as if Taleban claims to have shot the Chinook down may well be correct. RECENT AFGHAN AIR CRASHES - Eight US troops die in helicopter crash in Zabul province - 14 UK service personnel die in Nimrod crash in Kandahar province - Dutch F-16 fighter pilot dies in crash in south of country - 16 people of multiple nationalities die in helicopter crash in south-east - 10 US soldiers die in helicopter crash in Kunar province - Five die when US anti-drugs plane crashes in southern Afghanistan "It was a hostile area where the helicopter went down," said Major John Thomas, a spokesman for Nato's International Security Assistance Force (Isaf). "Initial indications are that enemy fire may have brought down the helicopter." The nationality of the seventh passenger is still unclear. The helicopter crashed at around 2100 (1630 GMT) in the Kajaki district of Helmand, Isaf said in a statement. A rescue patrol was ambushed by "enemy fighters" and forced to call for an air strike to access the crash site, Isaf said. Incidents of helicopters being shot down are relatively rare in the country, says the BBC's Alastair Leithead in Kabul. About 30,000 alliance troops and another 10,000 US-led ones have been battling to boost the authority of President Hamid Karzai. On Thursday, Isaf confirmed that fighting was going on against the Taleban in Sangin district, near Kajaki. A statement said air strikes had been carried out against Taleban positions. It did not say whether there had been any casualties. But the Afghan Defence Ministry said dozens of Taleban fighters had been killed or wounded. Local people have disputed the government account, saying some of those killed were civilians rather than Taleban. Sangin district police chief Ghulam Wali told the BBC the aim of the operation was to secure the road from the Shali area to Kajaki. In the ambush in Zabul, six policemen were injured as well as those killed, officials said. Interior Ministry spokesman Zmaray Bashary told the BBC that police had also inflicted heavy casualties on their attackers in a gun battle which had raged for 20 minutes. He said the ambush took place in Shahjoy district, a Taleban stronghold, as the police convoy travelled from Zabul to Ghazni. There was no way of independently verifying casualty figures in either incident. Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6708939.stm | Devon | MP fined for disabled bay parking May 2007, 16:00 GMT 17:00 UK fined for disabled bay parking Mr Steen says there are too many disabled parking spaces A Devon MP has apologised for parking illegally in a disabled bay at Newton Abbot railway station. Anthony Steen, the Conservative MP for Totnes, said he was "rushing" to Westminster and parked in the disabled bay because the car park was full. He said the station had "an absurd number of handicapped spaces" and the regulations should be looked at. Mr Steen described a constituent who photographed the car and told a local newspaper as "very sneaky". I applaud the warden who issued the fixed penalty But his actions have been condemned by the charity Mobilise, which promotes the welfare of disabled people. Director Helen Smith told BBC News there was no defence for parking in a disabled bay. "It's not for him to decide how many disabled spaces there should be," she said. "He could have been denying someone who genuinely needed that space and may have had to return home. "It was an abuse and I applaud the warden who issued the fixed penalty." Mr Steen said there were several vacant disabled bays at the station. "Not that I've ever seen a handicapped person ever use one of them," he said. "Some helpful and public spirited constituent telephoned the Herald-Express to let them know my car was there. "It would have been much more useful if they'd telephoned me to let me know my car had a ticket, but they didn't choose to do that and they were anonymous which is a very sneaky thing to do." Anthony Steen said it was his first ticket in 24 years The MP said while he accepted he had parked in the wrong space and deserved his ticket, he believes the station has too many disabled parking bays. "Every time I go to Newton Abbot station, I'm going to photograph the handicapped spaces because I can tell you none of them are used," he added. Disabled driver Fergus Millar said Mr Steen's actions were wrong. "It was thoughtless and a bad example from someone who should know better," he said. Mr Steen said there was a "disproportionate amount" of disabled parking spaces at stations across the country. "Of course the handicapped have got to be given provisions, but not against the interests of the majority. "I certainly shouldn't have parked where I did and I'm very sorry I did," he said, adding that it was his first parking ticket in 24 years. A spokesman for the Conservative Party Central Office said: "If he is going to pay the fine then that will be the end of the matter." leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon The in profits for water company MP fined for disabled parking Waiting over for would-be buyers Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6708183.stm | Nottinghamshire | Hitman jailed over pub shooting May 2007, 13:42 GMT 14:42 UK jailed over pub shooting The judge said McSally was "an incredibly dangerous man" A hitman who gunned down two men in Nottinghamshire on the orders of a criminal gang has been jailed for life. Patrick Marshall, 46, was shot dead outside the Park Tavern in Basford in February 2004. Derrick Senior was shot on his driveway but survived. John McSally, 50, of Plaza Gardens, Basford, was convicted of murder and attempted murder at Leicester Crown Court on Thursday. McSally, who denied the charges, was ordered to serve a minimum of 35 years. Even by the warped standards of those who enforce their will by violence these were evil offences Mr Marshall was gunned down in the car park of the Park Tavern pub on 8 February 2004 - three months before Mr Senior was shot. The court heard Patrick Marshall, who was wrongly suspected of being an informant, had arranged to meet his killer, who he thought was going to sell him a gun. Youth worker Derrick Senior was shot days after he helped to jail four men who carried out a racist attack on him in a pub. The court was told the convicted men were part of a gang, who then wanted revenge by ordering McSally to "send him a message". He was shot five times through the window of his car as he reversed down his driveway on Harmston Rise, Basford. Prosecutor Timothy Spencer said Mr Senior survived the ordeal by "playing dead" and slumping forward on to the wheel of his car. Mr Justice Pitchers, said McSally was an "incredibly dangerous" man. He said: "Even by the warped standards of those who enforce their will by violence these were evil offences. Patrick Marshall was shot dead outside the Park Tavern "Patrick Marshall has done nothing to deserve any sort of attack, let alone to be summarily executed by you with a firearm. "Derrick Senior is a thoroughly decent, law-abiding member of the community who had done nothing more than wish to see justice done in a case where he had been subjected to a racial attack." McSally, who did not react to the verdict told the judge the sentence would be "no problem". Craig McKay, 33, of Derby Road, Stapleford, was cleared of Mr Marshall's murder on Friday. Mr McKay's girlfriend Sally Weetman, 37, also of Derby Road, Stapleford, was also cleared of perverting the course of justice. AND AUDIO NEWS Hitman jailed for life Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham Man cleared of murder outside pub 25 Men on trial on pub death charges 19 Apr 07 | Nottinghamshire Second man charged in pub murder 24 Aug 06 | Nottinghamshire Reward offered in shooting case 08 Feb 05 | Nottinghamshire The jailed over pub shooting Woman died following hysterectomy Alliance Boots takeover approved Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6708251.stm Ireland | Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut May 2007, 12:40 GMT 13:40 UK Fein's Policing Board debut Daithi McKay, Martina Anderson and Alex Maskey of Sinn Fein Sinn Fein has taken its seats on the Policing Board for the first time. Alex Maskey, Martina Anderson and Daithi McKay represent the party, which voted in January to back police in Northern Ireland for the first time. Mr Maskey described Sinn Fein's participation as a significant step forward to ensure accountable policing. Sir Desmond Rea and Barry Gilligan were re-elected as chairman and vice chairman. Sir Desmond said NI was "entering a new era in policing". "This new board will continue to ensure for all the people of Northern Ireland an accountable, effective, efficient and impartial police service," he added. BOARD MEMBERS IN FULL Prof Sir Desmond Rea Mr Gilligan said the new board's priority was "engaging communities and building public confidence in policing". Irish Republic Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern said Sinn Fein coming on board marked another new and positive phase for policing in Northern Ireland. "The Policing Board has played a pivotal role in building confidence across both communities in the new policing arrangements and in paving the way for recent breakthroughs at the political level," he said. The DUP is the largest political party on the board, with four members. Sinn Fein has three seats, the Ulster Unionists have two, and the SDLP has one. The board also has a number of independents. Board holds last meeting 02 Ireland SF policing board nominees named 23 Apr 07 | Northern Ireland Sinn Fein in Policing Board first 16 Apr 07 | Northern Ireland District policing support urged 14 Jun 06 | Northern Ireland DUP seeks Policing Board changes 08 Oct 05 | Northern Ireland The NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6706787.stm | Blair's farewell tour blasted May 2007, 05:08 GMT 06:08 UK farewell tour blasted There is a note of disapproval in the coverage of Tony Blair's Africa tour in Thursday's papers. is unimpressed by Mr Blair's elevation to an honorary paramount chief in Sierra Leone. Richard Littlejohn calls him "Bwana Blair" and compares him with a "munificent emperor surveying the outposts of his crumbling realm". says Africa is a "convenient backdrop to the glorified photo-shoot" of his farewell tour. Gerry and Kate McCann presenting the Pope with a picture of their daughter, Madeleine, makes several front pages. says Mrs McCann drew some comfort from a butterfly which landed on her hair just before the meeting, seeing it as a "symbol of hope". 's Amanda Platell urges the McCanns to reconsider their publicity campaign. She says the couple's "sustained public anguish" is "almost unwatchable" and threatens to destroy its very purpose. It may be a strong candidate for the most reviled TV show in Britain, but the tabloids cannot ignore the start of a new series of Big Brother. The all-female cast promises to be "the sexiest ever", the categorises them as lust-fuelled twins, groovy grans and a trippy hippy. says that with 11 women in the house, the series highlight could be the fight for a hairdryer. Two of Thursday's papers carry very different diagnoses of the state of the country's housing market. says Land Registry figures suggest the market is in rude health with house prices soaring by 9%. says the rise is distorted by conditions in London and prices are, in fact, falling in four of the 10 Land Registry districts. The paper concludes that the 11-year boom in England and Wales could finally be at an end. anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/north_east/6708189.stm | North East/N Isles | Death driver 'was visiting grave' May 2007, 15:21 GMT 16:21 UK driver 'was visiting grave' Paul Nicholl's grandfather was buried on Monday A teenager who died after his car crashed and was then hit by a train may have been visiting his grandfather's grave, it has been revealed. Paul Nicholl, 19, was driving his new BMW along the A95 near Keith on Tuesday night when the car left the road. It landed upside down next to the Aberdeen to Inverness line. Relatives said Mr Nicholl was "one in a million". His grandfather was buried on Monday and his mother said it was unusual for her son to be on that road. It was very unusual for him to be on that road and I wonder if he had been to the cemetery Apprentice joiner Mr Nicholl, from Keith, was cut free from the wreckage but was pronounced dead at the scene. Police said the car appeared to have somersaulted several times after leaving the road, following a spell of heavy rain. The railway line and the A95 were both closed for several hours following the accident. Slight damage was caused to the train, which was heading north and no passengers were injured. Mr Nicholl's mother Sheila said: "He was super, I wouldn't have changed him for the world. "He was very close to his sisters and younger brother and had a wide circle of friends who described him as one of the best friends they ever had. He was also very close to all his other relatives. "He had been keen to get this car for some time He had only had it for three weeks and was so proud of it." Grampian Police are investigating the accident It was the second sadness the family endured this week, as Mrs Nicholl buried her father, Bob Legge, on Monday. She believes Mr Nicholl may have been returning home from visiting his grandfather's grave when the accident happened. She said: "He always came home by a different route. It was very unusual for him to be on that road and I wonder if he had been to the cemetery." Grampian Police Inspector Ian Kirkwood said: "This was a particularly horrific crash which could have had horrendous consequences had the vehicle come to rest on the rail tracks. "Thankfully the train made only a glancing blow to the BMW and train passengers were probably unaware of the incident." Police have been appealing for witnesses to contact them. crash car lands on railway 30 East/N Isles Grampian Fire and Rescue Service The NORTH EAST/N ISLES STORIES Teenager cleared over man's death Death driver 'was visiting grave' Police uniform stripper in court Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/manchester/6708383.stm | Manchester | BBC Salford move gets green light May 2007, 13:55 GMT 14:55 UK Salford move gets green light The centrepiece will be a piazza twice the size of Trafalgar Square The BBC's proposed move of five departments from London to the north-west of England has been given the go-ahead. Five Live and BBC Sport are among those being relocated to the mediacity:uk development at Salford Quays. The BBC Trust has approved the terms of the deal. Work on the site will begin within days and be completed by 2011. BBC director general Mark Thompson said he was "delighted" the move was now "firmly on the road to reality". The BBC Trust reached agreement with the developer Peel Holdings over the detailed terms under which it will occupy buildings in the mediacity:uk development. Mr Thompson, added: "I'm delighted that the BBC's vision for its expanded presence in the North of England is now firmly on the road to reality. "I'm excited by the plans and believe they have a key part to play in the BBC's future. "The modern, multimedia broadcast and production centre in Salford will shift the BBC's centre of gravity away from London, bringing a range of creative benefits to us and, I hope, helping us to better reflect and represent the whole of the UK. "I'm glad that the BBC Trust agreed that this project represents value for money for licence fee payers and that we are now able to proceed." The BBC will move five London-based departments, including two television channels and two radio networks, to Salford Quays. They are: BBC Children's (including CBBC and CBeebies television and radio) Parts of BBC Future Media & Technology (including BBC Research & Development) BBC Radio Five Live (including Five Live Sports Extra) The move will see approximately 1,500 London-based posts will relocating to Salford Quays in 2011. Around 800 staff currently based at the BBC in Manchester will also move to the new site. Caroline Thomson, chief operating officer of the BBC, said: "I'm delighted that we have now finalised the terms for the BBC's presence at the mediacity:uk development. "This is a really exciting project for us all and I look forward to working with colleagues in Peel Holdings and the development consortium to turn the vision into a reality." and features on the BBC's Manchester website Proposed BBC site plans approved 23 Apr 07 | Manchester BBC bosses mull Manchester sites 21 Oct 05 | TV and Radio BBC seeks increase to licence fee 11 Oct 05 | TV and Radio Q&A: The future of the BBC 11 Oct 05 | TV and Radio Future of the BBC The Salford move gets green light Fire crew 'slept in wrong place' Motorway widening report welcomed Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/6707873.stm | May 2007, 13:47 GMT 14:47 UK forces across the country are cracking down on tinted car windows. But what's driving the craze among drivers for a darkened view of the road? So there you are waiting at the lights in your standard-spec Ford Focus when another car pulls alongside. It appears the driver wants to share his music with you... and the rest of the neighbourhood. But when you glance around, it seems he doesn't particularly want you to see inside his car. His windows are tinted. They are as dark as his alloy hubcaps are bright. There are criminals who seek to hide behind the windows - the question is, what have you got to hide? Over the last two years, police forces as far afield as Northern Ireland, Devon, Manchester and Strathclyde have been cracking down on tinted windows. The law states front windows must allow 70% of light through; the front windscreen 75%. Yet there are illegal tints out there letting as little as 5% light through. Traffic officers believe such excessive tints are potentially dangerous, particularly at night, and they are increasingly armed with optical meters. In Manchester, more than 2,000 fixed penalty notices have been issued to drivers of cars with excessively tinted windows since October 2006. Police have handed out 520 prohibitions, forcing drivers to take their cars off the roads while they have their windows restored, 80 of which were in the last fortnight. Pc Dave Barrow, of Greater Manchester Police, says offenders break down into three groups. Fans try to emulate their limousine-carried idols "There's the innocent purchaser of a nice car where the garage have said we can tint the windows so it looks nicer. There are criminals who seek to hide behind the windows. The question is, what have you got to hide? "Then there are the cars with loud music blaring and tinted windows are a bit of a fashion accessory." Forces cite the fall-out from a serious accident involving a motorcycle and a car with heavily tinted windows, as the impetus for this current crackdown. Peter Grunert, deputy editor of Top Gear magazine, blames an increasingly celebrity-obsessed media for driving "People want some of that. Cachet is reflected in the cars they drive," he says. "Super-sized chrome rims, massive sound systems, DVD, and mystery glass, the full package. An element of that is coming over to the UK." Go on a website advertising tinted windows and you'll see references to "a touch of distinction", and products like "light smoke", "midnight" and "limo". Without tinting you can see the seats and the rubbish strewn everywhere Mark Needham, who promotes custom cars events, says tinted windows are the first port of call for any aspirant boy racer. He has them on his own car. "It makes the car look a lot more stylish. Without tinting, you can see the seats and the rubbish strewn everywhere. You modify as much as you can within the law. But some people push the boundaries a lot," says Mr Needham. The trend for even subtle tinting is a recent one. Once they were a swanky optional extra in the 1980s. Now most new cars come with almost the maximum legal tint as standard. Anything beyond that tends to be added by specialist fitters, using films on the inside of windows. Tom Hardyment, general manager of tint and security film specialists Pentagon, says his firm does 4,000 car tints a year. But it's a myth that boy racers are driving demand. Instead, the typical customer is an affluent mother with small 4x4 or people carrier, who wants the back windows done to save the kids from sunburn and stop them getting grumpy in the heat. Other customers are government and business. Rapper Busta Rhymes was pulled over for excessively tinted windows "It is growing, corresponding to sales of small SUVs. They are greenhouses on wheels. People like it, it protects their kids, they can watch their DVDs. It's 60% practical, 40% cosmetic. You've got a few people running around who reckon they are hoodies, running around spoiling it. People who have tinted front windows - it's stupid and illegal." But he still thinks a little dash of darkening is aesthetically pleasing. "You can pretty much pick any car you like and the press shots will have very heavily tinted windows, including the windscreen. It lowers the roofline, gives it a more sporty look." Kevin Wing, owner of the Tinted Windows Company in Watford, says the link between tinting and crime is a myth and instead points to supposed environmental benefits. "It makes the car run more economically because you don't use so much air conditioning. I get a lot of customers who say I don't want to look like a drug dealer. But that's a myth. It would be a bit like having a robber with swag written on his bag. My main customer is a woman with a multi-passenger vehicle." But Mr Wing admits he tints front windows and windscreens at levels greater than the law allows to be driven on the roads, insisting that many of his customers are using cars in adverts or shows. "I try to angle people into having the legal limit... It is entirely up to you what you do with your vehicle on the highway. How can you tell if someone's going to use it for a show purpose or not?" But just as police are getting wise to the trend, Steve Chalmers, editor of Fast Car magazine, says drivers' interest is starting to wane. "I've been in cars with the heavy tints and it's very claustrophobic. I would say it is starting to die out slowly. It was a big thing a few years back." Send us your comments using the form below. "Instead, the typical customer is an affluent mother with small 4x4 or people carrier, who wants the back windows done to save the kids from sunburn" Most ultraviolet radiation is blocked by glass. In particular those with shorter wavelengths, (UVB rays) do not pass through glass. Since UVB is the primary cause of redness and sunburn, I am at a loss why the children of these Chelsea-tractor driving mothers are defying the laws of physics and getting sunburnt through the window. Of course, the concerned parent could be worried about the effects of UVA rays, which have longer wavelengths and can make it through glass. UVA rays can cause skin ageing and research is now demonstrating that it may also be a risk factor for skin cancer and in addition to this some tinting process can make windows impenetrable to UVA rays. However UVA rays do not cause sunburn. However, anyone who has sat through a GCSE physics lesson on ultraviolet should already know all this¿ Jonathan Pearson, Towcester, U.K. There are regular arguments over tinting on automotive internet forums - people whining about getting pulled over because they've got their front windows tinted - it's like complaining because you've been pulled over for speeding - it's illegal, you've knowingly done something illegal and you've been caught. Shut up, frankly. Quite why those people who tint their front windows are so ashamed of being seen out in their vehicle is a total mystery to me. You can't get sunburn through glass. Although hats off to the fitter who takes a bundle off the 4x4 owner who doesn't know this. My brother had his windows tinted because he doesn't want to wear a seat-belt!! Pete, Stratford upong Avon The link between criminality and tinted windows is just a myth. It's simply another revenue-making scheme for the police; yes, if your windows allow less than 70% of light through, you're technically breaking the law, but then if you gamble for money in your own home, you're also technically breaking the law. I really wish the police would spend less time on things like this and more time on the important issues affecting this country. I admit that my windows are tinted more than the current law allows (they were like this when I purchased the car) but they in no way impede my ability to see... I think you'd have to have something like a 75% tint for it to actually prevent you from seeing properly. It does, however, impede people outside my car from seeing in and, let's face it, that's my personal choice. I have the windows tinted on my LWB 4x4, from the B pillar back, all legal. It makes it look better and stops prying eyes looking into the back. My mother has even ordered tints on her new vehicle. I totally agree with the police crack down on these illegal side window tints. As a motorcyclist it's hard enough to be seen, but when someone is looking out of a side window with a limo tint on it their vision is vastly reduced and you have no eye contact with the driver. There is a car driving around my home town with very dark tins on all the windows and the driver also have three quarters of his windscreen tinted from the top down! That car on a country road, a pedestrian with dark cloths on or a broken down or badly parked vehicle, well, disaster waiting to happen. John Rymer, Carrickfergus. N. Ireland I live in the Middle East where many cars are very heavily tinted, either to keep out the sun or for reasons of modesty. The tints are lethal and are well established here as the cause of many severe accidents. There have been countless occasions when drivers have gone through red lights - with fatal consequences - because the tint alters the appearance of colours. Not only that, but being unable to see a driver pulling up to a junction as you drive along a main road means you cannot make eye contact and you cannot read body language to gauge their intentions. Finally anyone who has been a passenger in a heavily tinted car at night - I have - knows that it makes pedestrians harder to see. The blazing sun is partly an excuse for tints in the Middle East - there's no such excuse in the UK. Lesley Cain, Dubai, UAE What a refeshing change - car drivers being penalised for illegal tints. It's usually the (mainly) law-abiding motorcyclist who bears the brunt of the heavy-handed approach often adopted by the police for daring to wear a tinted visor for daytime riding in order to avoid being dazzled by the sun. Most are not illegal and a spare, clear visor is carried for when light and visibilty are reduced. Obviusly, this is so that we can ride safely and sunglasses are not always convenient. When learning to ride my bike a useful tip was to use other vehicles waiting alongside me at junctions as windows in order to obtain a clear view of the traffic around me (useful advice for car drivers, too). However, this is impossible when surrounded by a growing number or cars with "blacked-out" windows and it's even harder to see around large 4x4s and people carriers . Tinted windows have been around since at least 1973. I remember the DIY paint-on kits and stick on film that you could buy, but even then there was a legal limit to how to dark they were allowed to be. Susan Richards, Penarth, South Glam. Tinted windows prevent a clear view of the other driver and thus facial expressions, gestures ¿ eye contact in general, often valuable indicators to the other's intention. In a complicated driving environment such clues are essential. John Davis, Manchester, UK/Philadelphia, USA As a cyclist/motorcyclist, I find it very useful to look drivers in the eye when they are waiting at junctions, to confirm that I have indeed been noticed. Tinted windows prevent this and are therefore dangerous from my point of view. Many years ago (probably ten) people could drive what car they wanted in any colour they wanted without being labelled. Nowadays everything is aimed against car drivers, whether it be tinted windows, 4x4s, or where you are allowed to drive or park. We now live in a country where the police are only interested in motorists and the minority tell the majority exactly how and what they are allowed to do. I think complaining about tints is just another way of pursuing motorists whilst avoiding real causes. There are many benefits to tinted windows, as mentioned above, reduced glare, cooler ambient temperatures, and better protection to vehicle interiors. I haven't seen anyone stopped for their sunglasses to be checked and these often allow less light through than window tints. Where does the law stand on that? "I get a lot of customers who say I don't want to look like a drug dealer [...] My main customer is a woman with a multi-passenger vehicle." Seriously though, this protest smacks of racial profiling: no-one can "conceal their identity" from the police because they can check your plates... But how will they know if a car's being driven by a young black man if they can't see through the windows? All windows on all cars should be clear plain glass, with 0% of allowable tint. The sun screen and enviormental reasons are simply excuses to 'hide' Richard Gullick, Halesowen West Midlands The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. to limit C02 emissions? You're not going to like this... Sign of the times The dash for 'no smoking' signs YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN The decade when everything started to change - Andrew Marr on the 60s Send your memories of the 60s See your memories of the 50s Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: of today's papers VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX Rapper Rhymes in driving arrest 03 The Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6699869.stm | url link May 2007, 08:09 GMT 09:09 UK Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6702315.stm | Ethics of reality TV May 2007, 12:45 GMT 13:45 UK of reality TV Last year's winner had Tourette's - what twist is in store this time? The Big Brother circus is starting again, with even a "topsy turvy" house to toy with its contestants' minds. As the makers of reality TV shows seek new ways to shock, ethicists Daniel Sokol and James Wilson evaluate the fall-out. Reality TV thrives on extreme circumstances. In the past week, Dutch programme makers have faced censure for a show in which the prize is a life-saving kidney, and Australian Big Brother for keeping a contestant in the dark when her father died. The mind games look set to continue with the UK's eighth series of Big Brother about to start. As well as entertainment, the series is an experiment into human behaviour. Yet, unlike research which uses human participants, there are no ethical safeguards to minimise the risks to those involved. All medical research must be reviewed by an independent ethics committee. And in education, universities usually require even undergraduate students to get "ethics approval" if a project involves human participants. Compete for a kidney? Projects that would be rejected by the most lenient of ethics committees appear regularly on our TV screens. Contestants may be asked by authority figures to perform acts which may be distressing or humiliating, and which may be difficult to refuse. A refusal may lead to eviction, criticism by fellow contestants, losing a privilege or incurring some other kind of penalty. Contestants may also worry about the reaction of the viewing public and its impact on their reputation and career prospects. They may feel coerced to do something they would not otherwise do. In research involving humans, consent is vital. In reality TV, however, contestants' consent to participate may be grossly inadequate. Are they provided with enough information to make an informed decision, or are some important details deliberately downplayed or withheld? Space Cadets: The joke's on you Some reality TV shows rely on deception for their success. Contestants may mistakenly believe they are in a spacecraft, or that they are talking in confidence when other contestants can hear every word. Therein lies the entertainment. Another concern is whether consent is truly voluntary. Cash prizes may be irresistible carrots which blind them to the implications of their participation. The prospect of fame, celebrity interviews, pictures in glossy magazines and invitations to glamorous parties may further undermine their ability to think rationally. How do we know if the participants are competent to take part? Some have appeared on the edges of sanity and, in at least one instance, a contestant threatened to commit suicide. We may wonder whether the pre-show psychological assessment is screening unstable individuals out, or in. Whether or not qualified psychologists should get involved is a related question, especially as they know such projects would never be approved in an academic setting. Should their professional ethics forbid their participation? There are many other ethical considerations, such as in what circumstances should the show be stopped or modified? What kind of support or counselling will be provided for the contestants afterwards? Danielle Lloyd makes up with Shilpa Shetty post-Celebrity Big Brother The recent dilemma faced by the Australian Big Brother producers, when a contestant's father died while she was in the house, reflects the need to consider such ethical issues in advance. It seems inconsistent to require ethics approval to protect participants in medical and educational contexts, but not reality TV shows. The fact that something is to be broadcast as entertainment does not remove the duty to treat other human beings decently. Independent ethics committees, made up of people from production companies, broadcasting, academic institutions and the general public, could be set up to evaluate reality TV proposals. These could critically review proposals, suggest changes if necessary or reject projects outright. This will not mean the death of the genre, but producers will need to consider their ethical responsibilities before proposing ever more daring shows. Some may think "ah, but these shows won't be fun anymore". But the committee's role would not be to reduce the entertainment value, but to ensure that it doesn't come at too high a moral cost. If people want to take part in potentially painful or embarrassing shows, that's up to them, but they should understand what they are signing up for. And surely we should not tolerate ill treatment for the sake of entertainment. In medicine, regulations and codes of ethics followed the revelation of highly unethical research conducted during World War II. In reality TV, contestants will not be injected with cholera or forced to drink sea water, as in the Nazi medical experiments of the 1940s. But the risk of severe harm, especially psychological distress, remains. Dr Daniel Sokol and Dr James Wilson are lecturers in ethics at Keele University. Below is a selection of your comments. Humans are always curious to see other peoples' behaviour and reactions. Long standing TV soaps prove this point as they are based on normal everyday events that people can relate to. Shows such as Big Brother further extend this reach into human curiosity. However, by controlling functions in their environment does not represent reality TV as a certain reaction is almost guaranteed by the participants. Martin John, Cairo, Egypt We have enough nannying from the Government as it is - without having to introduce measures designed to cater for those few individuals who are not able to weigh up the pros & cons of being a contestant on a reality show. I would hope (& assume) that producers go to great lengths to ensure that participants understand exactly what they are letting themselves in for when signing up. Matt G Baish, Cheltenham, UK The BB contestants know exactly what they are getting into, and they can always walk out as many do. Many do it for their 5 minutes of fame, others hoping to launch a media career whatever the cost. There are two types of people who complain about BB, experts and viewers unable to operate the off button. Neither group seems to have any argument which stands up to analysis. The recent racism row and the subsequent accusations of the production company "burying" unsavoury footage clearly show the programme makers' concern is on ratings rather than the housemates' well being. The Quiet Man, Warrington What rubbish. Contestants on BB know exactly what they are letting themselves in for and have done ever since series 2; they choose to do it because they know that the fame and fortune are worth it. Geoff Winkless, Leicestershire, UK Surely there is a simple answer to anyone suffering ethical concerns about reality TV? Just don't watch it. What is the point in vetting a reality TV program it would defeat the whole purpose of it being a REALITY program, plus it would be boring. Outrageous people and how they behave is the reason why we all watch it. They know the risks of entering the house and they know they can pull out at any time so situations never have to become so bad I think every last detail of what goes on should be explicit and the participants informed of this in detail and in advance of the filming. Only by removing the uncertainty and thus the so called entertainment from these reality shows can we finally get rid of the genre and get back to quality entertainment. to limit C02 emissions? You're not going to like this... Sign of the times The dash for 'no smoking' signs YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN The decade when everything started to change - Andrew Marr on the 60s Send your memories of the 60s See your memories of the 50s Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: of today's papers VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6707847.stm | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Three people killed in M40 crash May 2007, 13:24 GMT 14:24 UK people killed in M40 crash Three people have been killed and 11 have been injured in a crash on the M40 in Buckinghamshire. Between six and eight vehicles are believed to have been involved in the collision, at Loudwater flyover, near High Wycombe. The crash happened on the southbound carriageway between junctions four and three, but affected the whole road. Police said the M40 remained closed in both directions in the area and was not expected to re-open until 1630 BST. Motorists have been advised to avoid the area. One casualty was airlifted to hospital and the other 10 taken by ambulance, police said. Police said investigations into the collision were ongoing, adding that it appeared a lorry had crossed the central reservation and collided with vehicles travelling the other way. Insp Steve Bridges said: "We are especially interested in anyone who saw a white flatbed lorry loaded with blue pallets travelling northbound from the M25 to junction three at High Wycombe." Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more The people killed in M40 crash £3m mobile phone raid near M-way Newcastle consider Ashley offer Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6708511.stm | Tories deny grammars 'disarray' May 2007, 14:40 GMT 15:40 UK deny grammars 'disarray' Mr Grieve said new grammars should be built if needed The Tories have denied their education policy is in "disarray" after a second frontbencher defended grammar schools. Dominic Grieve told his local paper that if more grammars were needed in Buckinghamshire, they should be built. One shadow minister has already quit after leader David Cameron said it was "delusional" to expect new grammars. But the party denied Labour claims its policy was in "chaos" saying Mr Cameron had only been referring to areas that did not already have grammar schools. In an article for the Buckinghamshire Examiner, Mr Grieve - shadow attorney general and MP for Beaconsfield - said he was "pleased" the Conservatives were looking at ways of reforming the comprehensive school system nationally. But he added: "There is no question of our changing the selective education system in Buckinghamshire against the wishes of the local community. "We must also ensure that if further grammar or secondary schools are needed they can be supplied within the county." David has said absolutely nothing that is out of line with Conservative Party policy There are 164 grammar schools in England - choosing pupils by academic ability at the age of 11 - with 10 local education authorities considered to be fully selective. David Cameron has faced a grassroots rebellion over his decision to ditch the Tories' traditional support for grammar schools and academic selection. He said the party had not built a single new grammar school during its 18 years in power, that evidence suggested they did not enhance social mobility and called it "delusional" to think they would be able to build more in the future. Instead, he pledged support for existing grammar schools, but backed an expansion of Labour's academies programme instead. On Tuesday Europe spokesman Graham Brady resigned after being reprimanded and warned to stick to his brief after saying selective schools could boost overall educational standards. The policy was also denounced by members of the Conservatives' influential 1922 committee of backbench MPs as "ridiculous" and "absurd". Europe Minister Mr Brady has already quit over the row On Thursday, Labour's chief whip Jacqui Smith said: "Dominic Grieve's comments have thrown the Tories' schools policy into further chaos. "At the same time as David Cameron and George Osborne pledge that new grammar schools would not be built, their own shadow attorney general says that allowance should be made for new grammar schools to be built. "The Tories are in complete disarray." But the Conservatives say Mr Grieve's comments do not contradict party policy. Shadow Education Secretary David Willetts said: "David has said absolutely nothing that is out of line with Conservative Party policy. "I do understand that in parts of the country where they've got grammar schools, as demography changes, so they will come forward with how their grammar school system needs to change." Mr Willetts said Mr Grieve's argument had been made in the full knowledge of his discussions with Buckinghamshire MPs and councillors - and he did not rule out building more grammar schools in such areas if they were needed. "I am fully aware that in a place with rapid demographic change, like Buckinghamshire, you are inevitably going to face questions about whether you need to build more schools or not," he added. quits post over grammars row 29 Tory reprimanded over grammars 29 Q&A: What are grammar schools? 16 Cameron steps up grammars attack 22 Is Cameron winning schools fight? 22 Cameron attacks grammar 'fantasy' 21 No more grammars, Tories pledge 09 Jan 06 | Education The issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/essex/6707443.stm | Essex | 'Hero' gun victim making progress May 2007, 09:50 GMT 10:50 UK gun victim making progress Adam Mapleson's condition is improving, police said Police officers are hoping to speak to a rail commuter who was shot as he tried to stop an armed robbery. Adam Mapleson, 24, was hailed a hero for going to the aid of two security guards being held at gunpoint by the men in Rayleigh, Essex, on 25 May. He was shot in the chest and was in a serious condition in hospital but has made rapid progress, police said. A British Transport Police spokeswoman said officers hope to be able to speak to him for the first time on Thursday. The guard and her male colleague were attacked as they loaded money into a cash machine at Rayleigh station. Mr Mapleson's father, Michael, said his son had been "extremely brave". "We were not surprised to hear that he suffered these injuries as a result of trying to protect another," he said. A £25,000 reward has been offered by security firm Loomis for information leading to the arrest and conviction of those responsible. The robbers are thought to have escaped with a box containing tens of thousands of pounds but security experts say red indelible dye could render them useless. The raiders escaped in a Ford Escort, which was later found abandoned in Eastcheap, less than a mile away. Parts of the raid were caught on CCTV, which detectives hope will help them identify the raiders. A man arrested in connection with the attack has been released on police bail and inquiries are continuing. travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex Father pays tribute to shot son 26 Robbery 'hero' wakes from surgery 26 'Hero' shot in security van raid 25 The gun victim making progress Families trial autism alert card Bids to sign up singing waitress Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707157.stm | Mortgage approvals hit year low May 2007, 11:16 GMT 12:16 UK approvals hit year low Recent interest rate rises in the UK could be beginning to bite The number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. Mortgage approvals totalled 107,000 in April, down from 111,000 in March and the third monthly decline in a row. In a further indication of weakening buyer demand mortgage lending rose by £8.9bn, much less than expected and the weakest rise since September Consumer debt rose by only £498m - half what was expected and the smallest increase since March 1997. "The Bank of England will be comforted by today's news which shows its monetary tightening is taking effect," said Thushani Gajasinghe, an economist at the Centre for Economic and Business Research. "With a further quarter-point rate increase possible in the third quarter, consumer lending may cool further." Historically low interest rates in the past few years have encouraged Britons to take on a mountain of debt - now reaching £1.5 trillion. However, interest rates have risen four times since the beginning of August last year which has begun to put pressure on some households' finances. Interest rates rose to 5.5% last month and it is widely thought a further rate increase is on the cards before August, and could even hit 6% by the end of the year. These rate rises are already impacting the consumer's attitude to credit card spending, and are expected to eventually take some of the steam out of the surging housing market and stabilise soaring property prices. But with double-digit price growth reported by Nationwide for May, analysts remain tentative on calling when a slowdown may occur. Global Insight economist Howard Archer said a general property shortage - particularly in London and the South East - would keep pricing power in favour of the vendor for a little while yet. But he did point out that significantly more houses have come onto the market in recent weeks as vendors looked to beat the planned introduction of compulsory Home Information Packs (Hips) in June. "This could well have some dampening impact on house prices in the near term at least, although it remains to be seen how housing supply will be affected by the delaying of the introduction of Hips to at least August," he added. home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house Fed up with the housing market? Find out more about the issues here The economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6706623.stm | Blair issues Africa action call May 2007, 13:22 GMT 14:22 UK issues Africa action call Nelson Mandela thanked Mr Blair for his support Blair speech in full Tony Blair has used a keynote speech in South Africa to say there is a "moral obligation" to use political action "to make the world better". Mr Blair, who promised more training for African peacekeeping forces and continued aid to the region, defended his interventionist foreign policy. That policy, criticised after the Iraq war, had not managed to transform Africa but had made it better, he said. Mr Blair is on his last big trip before stepping down as prime minister. He has denied the week-long tour, which has also taken in Libya and Sierra Leone, is a "vanity tour" - dismissing his critics as "cynical". Mr Blair is meeting South African President Thabo Mbeki, where Zimbabwe's political crisis will be on the agenda. He also held talks with South Africa's former leader Nelson Mandela, who thanked him "for his support over the years" and said he held him in high regard. However ferocious the challenges are in this part of Africa it's better to intervene and try to make a difference than stay out and try to cope with the consequences at a later time African media verdict on Blair In full: Blair speech In his speech Mr Blair, who has sent UK troops into action in Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Afghanistan and Iraq while prime minister, said it was in countries' self interest to intervene in failing states. He said: "I believe in the power of political action to make the world better and the moral obligation to use it. "I do not believe that in this time - the early 21st century - that international politics can be just about nations' interests, narrowly and traditionally defined. "I believe that now, today, our self interest is in substantial part defined by the well-being of others, that the consequence of globalisation is that our best chance of security and prosperity lies in advancing freedom, opportunity and justice for all." The Liberal Democrats described his speech as "trying to rewrite" his foreign policy legacy. Foreign affairs spokesman Michael Moore said the "high points" of Kosovo and Sierra Leone had been "completely overshadowed by the prime minister's disastrous misjudgement over Iraq". Africa is close to my heart... it has also been at the top of my foreign policy for the last 10 years. Blair role in arms deal And Professor Ian Taylor, an expert in international relations, told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme said Britain needed a stronger political engagement with African leaders and to ask "tricky questions" about governance. "It's not good enough simply to increase aid," he said. "What we have got now is a foreign policy which is much more focused on an economic approach to Africa's problems, rather than a political approach." Mr Blair has called on the G8 group of industrialised nations, meeting in Germany from 6-8 June, to be "bolder on Africa" and take a more strategic approach "based on partnership rather than aid alone". "My belief is that we have to stay with it for the long-haul, commit and re-commit. Never let it be said that we are not trying even if it cannot always be said that we are succeeding." Mr Blair was made an honorary paramount chief in Sierra Leone He also said Africa should have a greater representation at international institutions, such as permanent representation on the UN Security Council. On Wednesday, the prime minister held talks with President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah of Sierra Leone and Liberia's President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Afterwards he said: "However ferocious the challenges are in this part of Africa it's better to intervene and try to make a difference than stay out and try to cope with the consequences at a later time." The UK sent peacekeeping troops during to Sierra Leone in 2000, helping to end the country's civil war, which earned Mr Blair much popularity in the West African state. On Tuesday Mr Blair held talks with Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, saying relations between the UK and Libya had been "completely transformed" in recent years. In Thursday's speech, the main one of his trip, Mr Blair said: "Africa is close to my heart... it has also been at the top of my foreign policy for the last 10 years. "From the very beginning however, I wanted to base that policy on a new partnership with African leaders and countries - not one based on rich and poor or donor and recipient, but based on common values of justice and democracy and human rights." AND AUDIO NEWS Tony Blair meets up with Nelson Mandela In full: Tony Blair's Africa speech 31 13 Apr 07 | Politics Show Blair role in SA arms contract 31 Blair attacks Africa trip critics 30 What is Blair's African legacy? 30 African media on Blair's legacy 30 Blair hails positive Libya talks 29 Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/6705647.stm | Mother saw family diving deaths News in video and audio Your May 2007, 16:05 GMT 17:05 UK saw family diving deaths Richard Avent was a leading expert on historic Welsh buildings An archaeologist who introduced her husband and teenage son to diving has told how she watched them die on a holiday on the Maltese island of Gozo. Richard Avent, 58, and son Rhydian, 16, from Raglan in Monmouthshire, drowned during a dive last August. Mr Avent's wife, Sian Rees, said it seemed they did not exhale while they ascended, causing their lungs to burst. Recording an accidental death verdict, coroner David Bowen said the tragedy could not have been foreseen. The court heard that Dr Rees, a marine archaeologist for Welsh heritage agency Cadw, began diving in her college days. Her husband - a chief inspector of ancient monuments with Cadw - had taken up an interest in diving and had trained in Croatia with their son, Rhydian. They went to Gozo on a diving holiday last August where they joined a group led by an instructor from a diving centre. They completed three dives without any problems, but on the fourth, Rhydian and Mr Avent got into trouble. They had been told that the most interesting things to see were below a depth of 20m but that because of their relative inexperience, Mr Avent and his son would have to remain above that depth. Dr Sian Rees said the tragedy in her family was "indescribable" An experienced diver, Dr Rees offered to stay with them but they told her to go with the rest of the group. She told the hearing that Mr Avent and Rhydian had given the OK signal three times during the dive. But then when she looked back, she saw them ascending and realised they were in trouble. Once she reached them, she said they were descending again. Rhydian's breathing regulator was no longer in his mouth. After managing to get Rhydian to the surface, she tried to resuscitate him but there was red foam coming from his mouth and she realised he was dead. The diving supervisor had attempted to revive Mr Avent with no success. Dr Rees said she assumed Rhydian had got into trouble and his father had tried to get him to the surface but in their panic, they had forgotten to exhale as they went upwards. I will have to live for the rest of my life with a perception of culpability in that I was present The inquest heard that Dr Rees had thought long and hard about why Rhydian had lost his regulator but no theory worked completely. It was possible he had switched off his air supply without realising when he got into the water or he may have become tangled with his father. She thought it unlikely the hose had been snagged on rocks. Asked by the coroner whether her husband and son had been competent divers, she said you could only tell if someone was really competent by their reaction when something went wrong. Dr Rees, whose two older children had not been with them on the holiday, said she could not help blaming herself for what happened. "The tragedy that has befallen my family is indescribable and is all the more terrible in that it was avoidable," she said. "I will have to live for the rest of my life with a perception of culpability in that I was present and will always feel that there must have been something I could have done to prevent this happening." She also told the inquest she believes the Professional Association of Diving Instructors should review its safety guidance and consider introducing a probationary period for young or inexperienced divers. The association has issued a statement offering its condolences and says while they do all they can to minimise risks, diving will never be completely safe. Following the deaths in 2006, a post-mortem examination concluded that the pair died from barotrauma - pressure difference between lungs and the outside atmosphere - and drowning. At the time, First Minister Rhodri Morgan paid tribute to Mr Avent's "massive contribution" to the protection and conservation of Wales's historic sites and buildings. out more about what is going on across the region Funeral for holiday tragedy pair 12 Aug 06 | Wales Man and son drowned during dive 04 Aug 06 | Wales Tributes paid to castles expert 03 Aug 06 | Wales Man and son die on diving holiday 03 Aug 06 | Wales The reveals assembly cabinet Mother saw family diving deaths 'Stolen' Aborigine apology demand Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:51 GMT 17:51 UK Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. The man accused of murder 'Tense relations' over case Increase in anti-terror targets The number of potential targets placed under surveillance by counter-terror police increases by 37%. Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS A non-nicotine drug specifically designed to help smokers quit is approved for use on the NHS. Blair issues Africa action call Tories deny grammars 'disarray' Number of failing schools up 5% 21/7 accused 'had explosive list' Boy's custody death was suicide Mortgage approvals hit year low EMI strikes a deal with YouTube ALSO IN THE NEWS Why a sleepy fire crew faces the sack for shunning a chair Man Utd seal deal for Hargreaves Football: 'NI choose' Worthington What has Tony Blair achieved in four African trouble-spots? Premiership footballers worth £200,000 a week? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Campaign to axe plastic bags Search for Britons continues Schools get knife search power More Video / Audio News TV AND RADIO PROGRAMMES BBC One O'Clock News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Headlines from BBC News 24 Spy death suspect 'blames UK' MORE FROM THE UK Coulson to be Tories' press chief Hitman jailed over pub shooting Cardinal sounds abortion warning BBC Salford move gets go-ahead School power to search for knives UK soldier dies in Afghan crash Three people killed in M40 crash Boy racers, celebs and anxious mums in 4x4s... Roll up, roll up Want to limit C02 emissions? Blair's farewell tour blasted MP fined over disabled parking 'Hero' gun victim making progress Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims Witness appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' Morgan reveals assembly cabinet Mother saw family diving deaths All churches should stay out of politics. They should stick to what they know best Pope meets parents of Madeleine Migrants' road to UK integration Denial over Diana crash images Madeleine parents to see the Pope Sighting significant say McCanns A new series of Big Brother becomes Big Sister... A school tells why it introduced airport style search wands Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6704563.stm | School power to search for knives May 2007, 04:36 GMT 05:36 UK power to search for knives The government hopes to stamp out the use of violent weapons Schools in England have been given the legal right to search pupils who are suspected of carrying knives. Head teachers will also be given guidance on how to use airport-style metal detectors to screen young people. The guidelines state that a pupil can be refused entry to a school if he or she refuses to be screened. Education Secretary Alan Johnson said knife-carrying in schools was rare, but it was illegal and a message it would not be tolerated must be sent out. I think parents will welcome the clear message that bringing a weapon into school is a criminal offence Education Secretary Alan Johnson 'Why my school uses search wands' He told the BBC: "What happens at the moment is that if a teacher suspects a child of carrying a knife they have to call the police and wait for the police to arrive before that child can be searched - unless the child agrees to be searched. "By that time any weapon they are carrying may have been passed on." Under the new guidelines trained staff, authorised by the head teacher, would be able to carry out searches. Crucially, a search should never take place where there is any risk to staff or pupils. They also explain how best to screen pupils, suggesting that randomly selected groups of pupils could be searched in order to send out a strong message of deterrence. But it also sets out limits for schools, in that suspicion has to be reasonable and not based on stereotypical images of certain groups of pupils. Two members of staff should be present for a search and both must be the same sex as the pupil. And students can only be required to remove outer clothing, such as coats or jackets. Mr Johnson said teachers themselves had asked for the powers but added that the main way to keep knives out of our schools is to continue educating young people about the dangers associated with them. "I think parents will welcome the clear message that bringing a weapon into school is a criminal offence and will not be tolerated." Parents should make sure their children do not leave for school with weapons Send us your comments But he added: "Let's not exaggerate how our schools look at the moment our schools have a very low proportion with any problem at all with pupils bringing in weapons. "The Youth Justice Board survey told us that, Ofsted told us that and head teachers and teachers tell her that. "Lets not exaggerate this into saying our schools are some kind of ghetto from central Manhattan or the Bronx." National Association of Head Teachers spokesman said it was the job of the police to search individuals for weapons. "They are trained and have the appropriate body armour. "Our advice to our members will be to call for police assistance should they suspect that a weapon is being carried." General secretary of the NASUWT union, Chris Keates, welcomed the new powers, but said searches must be conducted properly by appropriately trained staff. "However, all schools will still need to consider how they will be incorporated into their policies and procedures to ensure that they are prepared fully should the need arise. "There is a clear role for local authorities and the local police in supporting and advising schools in this process." The Teacher Support Network said in the past year its support line had handled 175 calls regarding behaviour management, 30% of which were concerned specifically with violence, abuse and threats. "Giving teachers facing these issues the power to stop and search pupils may make them feel safer at work though schools must exercise extreme caution," a spokesman added. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction from teachers' union to the new powers Schools advised on knife searches 22 Feb 07 | Education Blair to hold summit on gun crime 22 Feb 07 | Politics School knife crimes 'blunted' out 21 Nov 06 | Oxfordshire Schools told weapons scans are OK 16 Oct 06 | Education Heads 'want police knife checks' 25 Jul 06 | Education The power to search for knives Number of failing schools up 5% Enforced schooling to 18 opposed Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6707929.stm | South Asia | Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' May 2007, 13:20 GMT 14:20 UK 'downed Nato helicopter' Nato says one of its helicopters that crashed in the southern Afghan province of Helmand on Wednesday may have been shot down by the Taleban. Seven people died in the crash, five of them US crew. Two military passengers - one British, one Canadian - also died. Nato-led troops are fighting militants nearby. Dozens of Taleban were killed or injured, Afghan officials say. Elsewhere, at least 16 policemen died in a Taleban ambush in southern Zabul province, the interior ministry said. Fighting between Nato-led security forces and the Taleban has escalated in recent weeks - particularly in the south. Nato is still investigating the cause of Wednesday's crash, but says it looks as if Taleban claims to have shot the Chinook down may well be correct. RECENT AFGHAN AIR CRASHES - Eight US troops die in helicopter crash in Zabul province - 14 UK service personnel die in Nimrod crash in Kandahar province - Dutch F-16 fighter pilot dies in crash in south of country - 16 people of multiple nationalities die in helicopter crash in south-east - 10 US soldiers die in helicopter crash in Kunar province - Five die when US anti-drugs plane crashes in southern Afghanistan "It was a hostile area where the helicopter went down," said Major John Thomas, a spokesman for Nato's International Security Assistance Force (Isaf). "Initial indications are that enemy fire may have brought down the helicopter." The helicopter crashed at around 2100 (1630 GMT) in the Kajaki district of Helmand, Isaf said in a statement. A rescue patrol was ambushed by "enemy fighters" and forced to call for an air strike to access the crash site, Isaf said. Incidents of helicopters being shot down are relatively rare in the country, says the BBC's Alastair Leithead in Kabul. About 30,000 alliance troops and another 10,000 US-led ones have been battling to boost the authority of President Hamid Karzai. On Thursday, Isaf confirmed that fighting was going on against the Taleban in Sangin district, near Kajaki. A statement said air strikes had been carried out against Taleban positions. It did not say whether there had been any casualties. But the Afghan Defence Ministry said dozens of Taleban fighters had been killed or wounded. Local people have disputed the government account, saying some of those killed were civilians rather than Taleban. Sangin district police chief Ghulam Wali told the BBC the aim of the operation was to secure the road from the Shali area to Kajaki. In the ambush in Zabul, six policemen were injured as well as those killed, officials said. Interior Ministry spokesman Zmaray Bashary told the BBC that police had also inflicted heavy casualties on their attackers in a gun battle which had raged for 20 minutes. He said the ambush took place in Shahjoy district, a Taleban stronghold, as the police convoy travelled from Zabul to Ghazni. There was no way of independently verifying casualty figures in either incident. Karzai's Afghanistan still faces daunting challenges, writes Lyse Doucet. Herat: A city reborn In pictures: Ordinary lives Pain of suicide women In graphics: Harsh realities Who are the militants? Travelling with the Taleban Views on foreign troops Should Nato boost presence? One Day in Afghanistan The SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6718375.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Guantanamo inmate sues US company Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 11:50 GMT 12:50 UK inmate sues US company Binyam Mohamed is currently in Guantanamo Bay A British resident held by the US is suing a company for allegedly organising flights that took him to Guantanamo Bay. UK-based legal charity Reprieve has filed the claim for Binyam Mohamed, an Ethiopian who lived in the UK, who claims he was tortured at the camp. Legal papers have been filed in California against Jeppesen Dataplan, a subsidiary of Boeing. Jeppesen said it cannot confirm if it was involved with the flights. A spokesman for the Colorado-based firm told the BBC News website: "We have thousands of customers who fly tens of thousands of flights every day and with each one of them they have a reasonable expectation that their operations will be kept confidential." Reprieve alleged Jeppesen was involved in the Central Intelligence Agency's "extraordinary rendition" of foreign nationals for detention and interrogation in overseas sites. Reprieve, which provides legal representation to 37 prisoners in Guantanamo Bay, said it was the first time a corporation has been sued over the rendition flights. It is bringing the case with the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). Corporations should expect to get sued where they are making blood money off the suffering of others Clive Stafford Smith, Reprieve The lawsuit against Jeppesen claimed the services they provided were crucial to the flights. A report approved by a European Parliament committee earlier this year said more than 1,000 covert CIA flights had crossed European airspace or stopped at European airports in the four years after the 9/11 attacks in 2001. Reprieve says Jeppesen's participation included securing necessary landing and overflight permits for the flights between the US, Pakistan, Ireland, Cyprus, Morocco, and Afghanistan. The legal charity also said Jeppesen helped to arrange fuel and ground handling for the aircraft and paid fees for the crew. Mr Mohammed was born in Ethiopia but sought asylum in the UK in 1994 and was given leave to remain. He lived in London for seven years. The US authorities claimed he planned to travel to the US and blow up an apartment block. He was arrested by Pakistani immigration officials at Karachi airport in April 2002 when intending to return to the UK. He was taken to Morocco in July 2002 where he claims he was tortured for 18 months before being taken to Afghanistan in January 2004. He was then sent to Guantanamo. The claim for damages is being made on his behalf and for two other men - Abou Elkassim Britel, an Italian citizen imprisoned in Morocco and Egyptian Ahmed Agiza, now jailed in Egypt. Reprieve's legal director Clive Stafford Smith said: "Jeppesen's motto is 'Making Every Mission Possible'. There are some missions that should never take place, and torture is one of them. "Corporations should expect to get sued where they are making blood money off the suffering of others." victim' seeks US justice EU states 'knew of CIA flights' Euro-MPs demand CIA answers Bush admits to CIA secret prisons Secret CIA jail claims rejected The Euro Parliament report will not end the controversy, writes Stephen Mulvey. Rendition v individual rights Bush stands by CIA prisons Q&A: Bush and CIA prisons Europe under 'rendition' cloud European report: Your views The in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6717769.stm BBC NEWS | England | London | City boss held after girl injured Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:24 GMT 18:24 UK boss held after girl injured A businessman has been sectioned after his two-year-old daughter was found at his family home with life-threatening head injuries. Alberto Izaga an executive of insurance firm Swiss Re, was arrested when the girl was found at his flat in central London's Albert Embankment on Sunday. Scotland Yard said Mr Izaga, 36, who was in custody, has been sectioned under the Mental Health Act. A police spokesman said the girl's condition remained critical. Detectives from the Metropolitan Police's child abuse investigation team are probing the incident. Mr Izaga was arrested shortly after 0830 BST. The girl, who has not been named, was taken to nearby St Thomas's Hospital where her condition is described as life-threatening. The apartment is being examined by forensic experts and has been cordoned off. Our thoughts are with the family Mr Izaga is a member of the board of Swiss Re, one of the world's most powerful insurance firms. He is described as the company's head of Life and Health Products. In July last year he was elected to the board of industry body the Association of British Insurers. A company spokesman said: "Swiss Re is deeply saddened by the tragedy involving the family of Alberto Izaga. Our thoughts are with the family." Mr Izaga, who is married with one daughter, works in London's landmark "Gherkin" building. He began his career at the headquarters of General Electric in 1998, where he became vice president of business development. features and more from the BBC website for London Child sex abuse conductor jailed Body sparks murder inquiry City boss held after girl injured family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6718911.stm BBC NEWS | England | London | Man 'copied internet rape scene' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:47 GMT 18:47 UK 'copied internet rape scene' A man copied the storyline of a pornographic story he read on the internet when he attempted to rape a 17-year-old, the Old Bailey has heard. The teenager was stabbed in the neck and stomach during the attack in Priory Gardens, Orpington, south-east London. She was saved by surgeons after a passer-by rescued her, the court heard. Hospital care assistant Peter Anscombe, 28, of Orpington, denies attempted murder, attempted rape, sexual assault and causing grievous bodily harm. He also denies assault with intent to commit a sexual offence on another woman. Christopher Hehir, prosecuting, said the 17-year-old, who was named for legal reasons, was attacked on 30 September last year after she got off a bus and took a shortcut through Priory Gardens on her way to work as a shop assistant. Prior to these events, he [Peter Anscombe] had led an apparently blameless life It is alleged that Mr Anscombe told the victim not to scream, then stabbed her in her stomach. He then sexually assaulted her before stabbing her in the neck, said Mr Hehir. The victim told the police the man used the knife to cut off her bra and clothing and fondled her breasts. The attack was interrupted by a female passer-by who tried to follow the man before returning to the victim and calling for help. The victim was taken to Queen Mary's Hospital in Sidcup, where Mr Anscombe worked, and she underwent emergency surgery. Mr Hehir told the court that she would have died without expert medical care. Following his arrest, three computers belonging to Mr Anscombe were found to contain a number of stories and images of rape and sexual violence, the court was told. In one of the stories, "Steve's next victim", "Steve" rapes a 16-year-old blonde girl in a field which she uses as a short-cut on her way home from work, after threatening her with a knife. A knife was later found in a pond at the park with the victim's blood on it. Four days earlier Mr Anscombe attacked a 39-year-old housewife in a car park in nearby Bromley, the court heard, but ran off when a witness sounded her car horn. "Prior to these events, he (Peter Anscombe) had led an apparently blameless life," said Mr Hehir. "However, whatever the outward appearances, he is in fact a man with a long-standing and sinister interest in sexual violence against women." He told the jury that the victims were both blonde and attractive and each attack was sexually motivated. Mr Anscombe was caught on closed circuit television at or close to the scene. He admitted being at the scenes but said it was a coincidence, Mr Hehir said. He also told the court that both victims had identified Mr Anscombe from videos and scientific evidence from the attack on the 17-year-old had linked him to the assault. The victims cannot be named for legal reasons. The trial was adjourned until Tuesday. features and more from the BBC website for London Her Majesty's Courts Service The sex abuse conductor jailed Body sparks murder inquiry City boss held after girl injured family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6718475.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Million-pound drugs trial fails Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 13:21 GMT 14:21 UK drugs trial fails Seven men were due to stand trial for conspiracy to supply cocaine Eleven men have walked free after a multi-million pound investigation into an alleged cocaine ring collapsed. On Monday, prosecutors at the Old Bailey offered no evidence against seven men due to stand trial for conspiracy to supply cocaine. Supergrass Juan Lopez was to be the key prosecution witness. At an earlier trial, also based on Lopez's evidence, the jury acquitted three men and could not decide on a fourth man. A fifth man pleaded guilty. In April 2005, Lopez walked into a London police station to admit his role in an international drugs ring. He admitted to large-scale cocaine dealing over seven years and is due to be sentenced at a later date. This shows the perils of relying so heavily on the evidence of a supergrass without any other corroborative evidence But a jury in the first trial refused to believe multi-million deals had taken place between Britain, Spain, Jamaica and Colombia and cleared three men of conspiracy to supply class A drugs. They were Alan Richardson, 44, of Rotherhithe, south London, Martin Schofield, 47, of no fixed address, and Darren Taylor, 37, of Bromley, Kent. The jury was unable to reach a verdict on Ford Sexton, 51, of Maidstone, Kent. On Monday, a judge decided he would not face a retrial and should be formally cleared. Nicholas Johnson, 37, from Bromley, Kent, pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiracy to supply drugs and is due to be sentenced at a later date. In the latest court hearing, Paul Collins, 39, of Borough Green, Kent, Alexander Duarte, 36, of East Ham, east London, Terence Wilmot, 34, of Edmonton, north London, and William Cuervo, 42, of Wembley, north London, were formally found not guilty. Dean White, 41, of Harlesden, north-west London, Jarnail Singh, 29, of East Ham, east London, and Ivan Alvardo Chica, of Stockwell, south London, were also formally cleared. On a separate count of conspiracy to kidnap, Mr Johnson, Mr Sexton and Dwight Peterson, 37, of Lewisham, south London, were also formally cleared. Solicitor Richard Atterbury, representing Dean White, said: "This shows the perils of relying so heavily on the evidence of a supergrass without any other corroborative evidence." But detectives said they believed the investigation triggered by Lopez's information had been a success, having secured 25 convictions. They had seized 507lb (230kg) of cocaine, 110lb (50kg) of heroin and 157lb (71kg) of amphetamines - with a street value of several million pounds in total. the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6717605.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Litvinenko demand foolish - Putin Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 01:54 GMT 02:54 UK demand foolish - Putin Andrei Lugovoi has denied the charges A UK request that a former KGB agent be extradited over the murder of Alexander Litvinenko is "pure foolishness", Russian President Vladimir Putin says. Russia's constitution did not permit it to hand over citizens and British prosecutors' competence was in doubt if they had not known that, Mr Putin said. He said if the UK sent enough evidence a trial could be held in Russia. The UK wants to charge Andrei Lugovoi, who denies involvement, with murdering Mr Litvinenko, 43, in London in 2006. He died in November after exposure to the radioactive isotope polonium-210. Mr Litvinenko, who was granted political asylum in the UK in 2000, was a former KGB agent himself and a critic of Mr Putin. The UK's director of public prosecutions has recommended that Mr Lugovoi be tried for murder by "deliberate poisoning" and a formal extradition request has been handed over to the authorities in Moscow. KEY EVENTS IN CASE Alexander Litvinenko meets Andrei Lugovoi and another Russian at a London hotel Litvinenko dies in a London hospital A Litvinenko statement accuses Russian President Vladimir Putin of involvement in his death. Experts say Litvinenko was poisoned UK police say they are treating the death as murder Lugovoi should be charged with Litvinenko's murder, British prosecutors say UK makes formal request for Lugovoi's extradition from Russia Full timeline of events The request has been made under the 1957 Council of Europe European Convention on Extradition, of which Russia is a signatory. However, Russia does have the right, under Article 6, to refuse to extradite one of its nationals. Speaking to journalists ahead of his attendance at the G8 summit in Germany, Mr Putin reiterated the fact that Russia can prosecute a citizen for a crime in a foreign country. However, he said the UK had not yet supplied it with sufficient details of the case against Mr Lugovoi, who met Mr Litvinenko on the day he fell ill. "Rather than simply demand Lugovoi's extradition, they should send enough evidence for the case to be taken to court," he said. "We'll do it in Russia, and any person found guilty of causing Litvinenko's death will be convicted." Mr Litvinenko's widow, Marina, has dismissed Mr Lugovoi's claims that British secret services had a part in the death. She said her husband's case was different from anything that had happened before and Russia should reconsider its law over extraditions. AND AUDIO NEWS Marina Litvinenko talks about the murder charge UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Case 'not harming relations' Litvinenko widow 'very pleased' CPS statement on Litvinenko Relations between Britain and Russia will be tense after Litvinenko decision Key locations in the investigation into the ex-spy's death Profile: Russia's secret police Litvinenko case: Key names Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6719475.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Level crossings campaign launched Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 14:41 GMT 15:41 UK crossings campaign launched The campaign was launched after the death of two teenagers Network Rail said it wants "running the risk" at level crossings to become as socially unacceptable as drink-driving. The rail operator said 96% of recorded incidents at level crossings in the UK were the result of an error by vehicle drivers or pedestrians. The company has launched a £3m advertising campaign warning of the dangers of level crossings. They decided to take action after two teenagers died in the Highlands when their car collided with a train. A Network Rail spokesman said cars driving on to the UK's railway tracks at level crossings represented the largest single risk of a train accident. "Compared to drink-driving, the numbers of deaths are quite small, but these are unacceptable deaths - almost every one of them is needless. "As a society this is something we need to look into. "We want to make running the risk with level crossings as socially unacceptable as drink-driving." If you get hit by a train, you are not going to win The Don't Run the Risk advertising campaign will run for three years. Leaflets are also being delivered to homes close to level crossings. The Network Rail spokesman added: "When the big drink-driving advertising campaign started around 10 years ago, there was still an attitude of 'have a drink, but just be careful'. "However, in the last 10 years that changed; you are a social pariah if you drink-drive. "We are now trying to educate people about the correct way to use level crossings. "If you get hit by a train, you are not going to win." In February two teenagers died and another was seriously injured at an open crossing in the Highlands. Their car collided with a train on the main Inverness line. A Network Rail review of crossings in the Highland area found they were within acceptable safety levels. In the first quarter of 2007 there have been four deaths in the UK from trains colliding with vehicles on level crossings. hurt after being hit by train 04 Jun 07 | Highlands and Islands 24 May 07 | Business Council calls for crossing review 09 Feb 07 | Highlands and Islands Second crossing crash teen dies 07 Feb 07 | Highlands and Islands The in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/l/liverpool/6720147.stm BBC SPORT | Football | My Club | Liverpool | Gerrard & Carragher extend deals Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Monday, 4 June 2007, 15:27 GMT 16:27 UK & Carragher extend deals The pair have spent their whole careers at Anfield Liverpool captain Steven Gerrard and defender Jamie Carragher have agreed new deals which will run until 2011. Midfielder Gerrard, 27, said: "The negotiations have gone really smoothly. I'm pleased to get it out of the way and we can look forward to next season. "Hopefully over the next four years we can deliver a lot more trophies." Carragher, 29, added: "I am very pleased. Obviously we are both local lads and I've always said I wanted to stay here for the rest of my career." The pair have spent their entire professional careers at Anfield and as well as manager Rafael Benitez, American owners George Gillett and Tom Hicks also stated their desire to tie the homegrown pair to long-term deals. Gerrard is now hoping the Reds can go on to the next level and transfer their recent excellent record in Europe onto the domestic scene. Having won the Champions League against AC Milan two seasons ago, they lost a re-match in last month's final in Athens. But the Reds have repeatedly failed to mount a serious challenge on the home front. They finished 21 points adrift of Manchester United in the Premiership last season, and have not claimed the domestic title since 1990. Liverpool have today signed two world-class players "I think these are exciting times at the football club with the takeover and the new stadium," added Gerrard. "We have both signed for four years and I am sure they are going to be four exciting years. "I don't see why we can't go from strength to strength and win a load more trophies, not just the Premiership but more cups as well. "Having said that, we can't get away from the fact that the Premiership is the one we want." Carragher is equally buoyant about the future and hopes to see out his career on Merseyside. "Hopefully I've got one more (contract) left in me that will take me until the end of my career," he added. "I have signed for four years and hopefully I can still be a regular in the team. That's the aim anyway." Crouch backed to stay at Anfield 28 May 07 | Liverpool Liverpool snap up Hungarian pair 28 May 07 | Liverpool We must spend big, says Benitez 24 May 07 | Liverpool AC Milan 2-1 Liverpool 23 May 07 | Europe Gerrard tips Reds to bounce back 23 May 07 | Europe Comment: Reds fall short 23 May 07 | Football Reds to begin stadium work in May 02 Apr 07 | Liverpool Football on the BBC Liverpool fans' views on 606 BBC Where I Live - Liverpool The PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6705541.stm BBC NEWS | Magazine | No piece of cake Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 10:00 GMT 11:00 UK piece of cake The Magazine's review of advertising Build a Skoda out of cake (and continue to change people's perceptions of the brand). Bakers are shown making an array of differently shaped and sized cakes and then assembling them into something. It becomes clear eventually that they are assembling an orange car, but it's only when you see a Skoda badge being fixed with icing sugar to the front of the cake car that the brand is revealed. This is advertising on a big scale. It's imaginative, ambitious, painstakingly crafted, and - thanks in no small part to the soundtrack of Julie Andrews singing My Favourite Things - destined to hit the target of being the ad you are glad to see. It's an instant classic. Shot at Shepperton Studios, the cake took eight people 10 days to make. While the basis of the chassis is seen being built up with sponges, the moulded parts of the bodywork are made with a mixture of Rice Krispies. A home economist reveals in a "behind the scenes" video that the cereal was "the best edible material which will set to the exact shape of the panel" - something anyone who's made an Easter egg "nest" cake will confirm. The headlight covers are made from glacier mints, the brake lights from red jelly. The engine and wing mirrors, from marzipan. Not only does director Chris Palmer think it was worth the trouble, he says it's the reason the advert works at all. "Thank God we did it for real," he says. "It was doing it for real in real time that was the worst possible way. We didn't have a practice run. It was all theory up until we had done it. But I'm so glad that we did, and that the people in the advert were the people who did it - the model makers were building it for real." This is an enormous amount of trouble to go to for an advert - some estimates say that it cost £500,000 to make; one newspaper pointed out the comparative value of a Skoda (the advert costs 62 times as much). So is this a bid for Skoda to make the most of its recent good press and performance in driver surveys? It's some time since the brand stopped apologising for itself, but does the scale of the advert indicate a bolder aspiration? Simon Barker, communications manager for Skoda, says not. "For us, it's not about being brash or proving a point, it's about self-confidence," he says. But he accepts that on first viewing this does not look like a Skoda advert. The initial shots of bakers hard at work is reminiscent of Asda's recent campaign starring Victoria Wood (coincidentally produced by the same advertising company), but as it progresses one expects it to be a Honda magnum opus, a worthy successor to its legendary Cogs in which various car parts beautifully collide with each other like a domino-felling exhibition. Barker says: "Lots of people have said to me that when it starts you don't even spot it's a car advert, until you see certain glimpses. And you certainly don't realise it's a Skoda advert. When they realise it is for a car, the first one that comes into their mind is a Honda. That's fantastic for us - Honda make great adverts. For us to be thought of being at their level is great." In fact, a distinguishing feature of the remarkable series of recent Honda adverts has been that none is in any way like any of the others. The latest, Hondamentalism, has three scientists battling against an almighty gale. It's a statement about scientific advance but feels bleak in comparison to previous feel-good efforts. One bit of trivia about the Skoda advert: Julie Andrews gave her personal approval to the soundtrack, following Skoda asking EMI's permission. Ad Breakdown has noted in the past just how much the right song can contribute to an advert's watchability, and that's never been truer than here. It reminds you what a towering talent Julie Andrews really is. The perfect clarity of the recording, her diction and flawless voice emphasise the unusual distinction of this work. And the remaining question - what happened to the cake? Barker says they looked at donating it to charity, but by the time the cake had been in the studio and under the lights during construction it was not thought fit for human consumption. It ended up in a compost heap - though the chocolate speedometer and marzipan wing mirrors were, reportedly, kept for posterity. Ad Breakdown is compiled by Giles Wilson Add your comments on this story, using the form below. Car manufacturers sometimes come up with true gems to sell their cars. From Ford's Steve McQueen Puma advert, to the Honda Cog advert and this one, it is rare that an advert stands out so much that it becomes an icon itself. Long may such enterprising adverts continue. i find this wicked how they make it ! Hananh , bordon hampshire england Homer Simpson would have liked this car !!!! Scott, Burnham on Crouch, Essex. I think the advert is amazing! A superb example of creative genius giving us reason to smile in an ever increasingly dull and drab world. Bravo! Adrian Tapping, London, UK As an ardent Skoda driver, I was delighted when I first saw the advert. It becomes more amazing every time I watch it as you pick up on new details you missed the first time. It is also a testament to the skill of the bakers and model makers. Clare Baker, Devizes, England The advert is great, but unfortunately it just makes me want to go and buy a gorgeous gooey cake rather than a car!! This ad infuriates me. It's the music. The building of the car out of cake is ingenious and deserves a much better soundtrack than that drippy old chestnut from The Sound of Music. I don't find Ms Andrews' diction and singing charming at all. It's twee and sickly and it makes me rage out or in other words change the channel. Quickly. E Dickinson, London, UK I loved this ad the first time I saw, I had no idea what it was for, but I was hooked and watched it the whole way through. It hits the mark completely, truly memorable and very clever. Complete Genius !! My children, my husband and myself stop in our tracks each time we hear the soundtrack to watch the magnificent creativity involved in this unforgettable advertisement! Well done SKODA ! Samantha Williams, Hungerford, Berkshire UK i saw this ad while out with a group of friends in a bar and I have to say I was totally swept away by it. I dont recall any of the 'honda' ads referred to in this article but this Skoda ad just sticks in my mind. what an amazing idea!!! shame it ended up as compost tho. Utter waste of food.. It's a terrible waste of a really wonderful song. It's got no subtlety, charm or intelligence. It's just ooh look at us we made a car out of cake so now we're a news story as well. I, for one, am even less likely to buy the car. Not that I was every likely to ... That was a great advert, what a shame they had to throw it away. I would have eaten it (some of it anyway). H. Anthony, Southampton, UK Absolutly love this advert, looks like the people who star in it are having great fun making the cake/car. About time we had some fun adverts, keep up the good work. I love this advert. Every time it comes on I look forward to watching it. Karen Glancy, Gourock, Inverclyde, Scotland I'm so glad to find out they did it for real. What a triumph......or was that Skoda? It made me think "What a wonderful final-year project for a catering college." As the daughter of a professional novelty cake designer I speak with experience when I guarantee that this is cake on a large and wonderful scale. Fantastic idea, I am very pleased to see that no corners were cut. It is a very long time since Skoda made rubbish cars and yet the stigma remains. I think it's time to change the badge - that's where the "feeling" stems from. Nice ad, shame about the car! I think it's absolutely fantastic. While watching it for the first time, I thought is was going to be another one of those annoying Asda adverts with Victoria Wood. But by the end I was in awe of what had been created and dearly wanted it to be all real, and not a foam shell with icing stuck all over it. I now have new respect for Skoda, the bakers and whoever came up with such an inspirational idea! The ad, like the car it represents is a joke. A very cleverly crafted advert and congratulations to everyone involved! However, shortly after watching this I heard an appeal for millions starving in Chad & Darfur - now ask yourselves who should be eating all that cake .. As mentioned in the article, I originally thought the ad was for Asda and Honda until the Skoda badge appeared. I think this was an amazing advert and I would like to see the making of video. (Is there a link?) It's kind of sad that an object created with such skill and imagination has been lost, but I'm glad that I've had a chance to see it, albeit during an advert break. It is true; everytime this advert appears on our television, the whole family seems to stop what they are doing. My children always say 'mummy please can we have one of those', of course meaning the cake car. My husband has a look upon his face of pure ecstasy, cravings to sink his sweet tooth into the car. I myself often think about taking a bite of the jelly brake-lights. what a shame no-one got to eat this marvelous creation. Still, however nice this cake car looks, I don't think it will make anyone buy a Skoda because of it. Marie Antoinette http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marie_Antoinette would have been proud! John Airey, Peterborough, UK My partner and I find the advert in slightly poor taste due to the waste of food, in a world where people are still starving. It all seems too extravagant, just for another car ad that doesn't really say anything about the function of the car. I get slightly irritated nowadays when I'm trying to work out what a new advert is for, and then find, once again, it's another 'conceptual' car advert. The first time I saw this advert and began realising it was for a car I immediately said to my girlfriend 'I bet that is a Skoda'. Low and behold when the badge was stuck on I thought 'I knew it'. I took this positiely as it is a very clever advert and something I feel Skoda should and have done to create an impression. Feel good factor is right - i drool every time I see this advert. One of the best on TV at the moment. Problem is, as a student watching it, you can afford neither cars nor cake. "thanks in no small part to the soundtrack of Julie Andrews singing My Favourite Things - destined to hit the target of being the ad you are glad to see. It's an instant classic." Can't stand it after the first showing- and really it's all down to the soundtrack -brilliant visuals but i have to turn the volume off. I like the ad and enjoy watching it. It is interesting, creative, fun and bring a smile to my face when I watch it. However, it does not improve my image about Skoda neither is it the choice of car I would purchase. Superb advert.... but can you still double the car's value by filling it up with petrol? Clever add - but after the initial impact you begin to realise what a waste of time, food and energy this is. It certainly wouldn't persuade me to buy a Skoda! A decadent pointless waste of money. Really liked the Ad, just that little bit different and quirky. Well done to all involved. Matt Baker, St Albans Could the ride be a bit spongy on this one? Composting cake??? That would lead to an on-the-spot fine where I live. I loved the complexity of it - they actually made the engine... I would agree with the report that it is an instant classic, its originality means that it will go down with some of TVs greatest ads. The detail Skoda must have gone into to make the Ad(and the cost) will certainly change peoples perceptions of the company,(hopefully for them, for the better.) james lavery, St Helens, England I love this advert its the only one I can stand to watch over and over again. The whole concept is brilliant, I would love to see a longer version or even a documentary into its making, the work that has gone into it and the detail is just absolutely mind blowing. A pat on the back to the people who thought up the concept and I imagine the pitch must have been a tough one. A big well done to the bakers they are amazingly talented people. Carly, East Grinstead, West Sussex There are children dying of starvation in the world but we can build a car out of cake. Doesn't that tell you something ?... The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. piece of cake A touch of class In defence of ad The rules of adv Review of the ye Too brainy by ha Why makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing the celebrity dream? The Skoda made of sponge cake Don't look for instant gratification YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN Go back in time Bomb sites, family reunions... your home videos of the 1960s Your 1960s in words, pics, videos Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: The CO2 table 10 things: No 10 has no keyhole VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX The family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6713429.stm BBC NEWS | Magazine | Taking time to appreciate Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 17:11 GMT 18:11 UK time to appreciate A POINT OF VIEW The reopening of London's Festival Hall next weekend should serve as a reminder of the important contribution undervalued architects and artists made to post-war Britain, says Lisa Jardine. Ever since it first opened in 1998, I have been an admirer of the new British Library building at St Pancras, designed by Sir Colin St John Wilson, who died last month. It is hard now to remember the controversy the library caused - the chorus of indignant disapproval from those who maintained that its sleek, stepped-back red-brick buildings were inappropriate for a national landmark. Or who preferred the hopelessly slow service and uncomfortable environment of the old round reading room at the British Museum, to the speedy, automated delivery of books from its vast underground book stacks, and the sumptuously appointed, light and airy reading spaces on the Euston Road. Architect Sandy Wilson, who dies last month So when the new Pallant House Gallery in Chichester, the last building designed by Sandy Wilson (as he was always known), won the prestigious Gulbenkian Prize for the best new development in a UK museum or gallery last week, I decided to take advantage of the bank holiday to visit it. Rounding the corner of Pallant Street in the rain, we got our first glimpse of the new wing adjoining the Grade 1-listed Queen Anne town house which used to house the whole collection. The juxtaposition of old and new is instantly sympathetic. Here is Sandy Wilson's trademark red brick - itself a deliberate reference to the work of Finnish architect Alvar Aalto he so admired - echoing the brick of the original house, echoing indeed the British Library, but on a more intimate scale. Where it joins the house, the discreet facade of the new building is faced in rich brown, salt-glazed terracotta tiling, tiling which also ornaments the recessed glass and steel entrance. Decorative incisions run vertically upwards suggesting glimpses of the interior, but the frontage otherwise encloses rather than discloses. Once inside, the spacious foyer is a light, airy surprise. Wrapping around an inner garden courtyard, the nine gallery spaces are classic pure-white, top-lit rooms floored in light oak. A startlingly strong collection of modern painting by key British artists is displayed in a lofty upper gallery, flanked by domestic-sized spaces that perfectly suit the scale of the works. [One] that has prospered in use over a number of years and still has the power to excite the mind and touch the heart Sandy Wilson on what defines a successful building Hear Radio 4's A Point of View But the inviting interior is not the only surprise the gallery holds. Once inside, I found myself convincingly in the presence of a collection of twentieth century British paintings and sculpture as thoughtfully selected and compelling as the building itself, and which represents Sandy Wilson's lifelong love-affair with twentieth century art. For Wilson was not only the architect here, he was a major benefactor too, whose gift of more than 400 works from his extraordinary personal collection of contemporary art was the catalyst for the new gallery extension. That collection tells an important story about a tradition in British art which is all-too-easily overlooked alongside the razzmatazz of more recent high-profile millionaire collectors and badly-behaved, attention-seeking Young British Artists. Sandy Wilson began collecting art in the early 1950s, with a band of colleagues and friends - artists, designers and architects - most of them part of the Independent Group (a group of young creatives at the newly-formed Institute of Contemporary Arts to whose discussions of contemporary art and its meaning he was an enthusiastic contributor). Pallant House: Inside and outside They included the artists Richard Hamilton, Eduardo Paolozzi, Peter Blake and R J Kitaj. He has described how he began by acquiring single works - occasionally by purchase (his first painting was bought with his £35 demobilisation pay from the Navy in 1945), but more often, particularly at the beginning, by a kind of barter with friends for works he had fallen in love with. On one occasion he turned out his pockets and offered Eduardo Paolozzi their contents, in exchange for a single piece ("it amounted to 37 shillings and 6 pence" he recalled). Each time Sandy Wilson fell in love with a work, the passion to acquire it was so powerful he characterized it as an addiction: "Only a fellow addict can understand the catch in the breath and the thumping heart of love-at-first-sight that signals the next ("absolute must") acquisition," he wrote in 1999. Later he would agonise over what work or works he was prepared to "part with", in order to buy something new he could not do without. Thirty years in the making, Wilson's British Library Over the years Sandy Wilson's collection grew and developed, until it became the extraordinary record of a generation we can browse and reflect on today at Pallant House. There is a strong sense of communality and shared purpose about it, just as there is a coherent timeframe, particularly concentrated on the 1950s through to the end of the 60s. As I moved among the paintings and occasional sculptures, it felt like eavesdropping on a conversation - a set of exchanges among individuals struggling with the bleak economic outlook and the associated muted, emotional austerity of the British post-war period. In fact, after an afternoon spent among the 20th Century figurative paintings by artists like Frank Auerbach and Lucien Freud, "pop" artists like Peter Blake and Patrick Caulfield, ground-breaking prints, and the stunning series of screen-printed posters by Kitaj currently on exhibit from the 1960s, I came away steeped in the suppressed passions of post-war Britain, and with a stronger understanding of the journey Wilson, his contemporaries and successors, had taken in architecture from the post-war years, down to the end of the century. Inside Pallant House (Picture: Peter Durant/arcblue.com) Sandy Wilson's art collecting began, as did his career as an architect, around the time of the Festival of Britain in 1951, and its associated building projects - above all the iconic building of London's South Bank, the Festival Hall. Indeed, his first architectural job was in the office of Sir Leslie Martin, the Festival Hall's architect. Laying the foundation stone for the Festival Hall in 1949, the then prime minister Clement Attlee predicted that the exhibition and its festivities would pass into history, but that the concert hall would remain, and around it would rise "buildings worthy to take their place with the best of old London and form part of the replanned London of the future". Yet for almost 50 years, while Sandy Wilson's artist friends exuberantly experimented with new ideas and futuristic forms, English public opinion generally set its face firmly against modern architecture. Architects attempting to innovate either with design or materials were pilloried - we need only recall the famous "carbuncle" jibe by the Prince of Wales at the design for the National Gallery extension in Trafalgar Square, or Sandy Wilson's own "30 year war" over the British Library. While the "Wilson gift" at Pallant House Gallery proclaims its owner's visionary eye for art and design, it is also a lasting reminder that the young architects of the 1950s in Britain were impatient to build for the future, given half a chance. Their dream was squandered in post-war impatience, and cheap, quick-fix solutions to problems of function and form. Only fairly recently has there been a resurgence in more confident and considered modern buildings in Britain. The message that densely layered buildings like the Pallant House Gallery and the British Library convey is that carefully made creative work takes time to conceive, time to refine and time to be thoughtfully executed. In 1995 Sandy Wilson described a successful building of this kind as one "that has prospered in use over a number of years and still has the power to excite the mind and touch the heart". We can, as it happens, test out that idea that where the architectural process behind a building has been intense, we will over time come to love and cherish it. Next weekend, the Royal Festival Hall reopens after two years of restoration and redevelopment. The occasion will be celebrated with an "Overture weekend" - 48 hours of free, continuous performance, in which every part of the site will become a platform for world-class artists, artists in residence, resident orchestras, and amateur and professional choirs from around Britain. Since 1951, London has indeed learned to love the Royal Festival Hall. I'd like to think that with its Gala reopening we will be celebrating more than just the building itself. We will also be celebrating the humanity and optimism of a generation of architects and artists - many of them directly inspired by Sandy Wilson - who came together in those critical post-war years, and whose work has been under-appreciated for so long. Add your comments on this story, using the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. of a scarf Why makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing the celebrity dream? The Skoda made of sponge cake Don't look for instant gratification YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN Go back in time Bomb sites, family reunions... your home videos of the 1960s Your 1960s in words, pics, videos Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: The CO2 table 10 things: No 10 has no keyhole VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX Visit the award-winning website of BBC Radio 4 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6717719.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Cold war warning provides focus Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 04:46 GMT 05:46 UK war warning provides focus President Vladimir Putin's warning that US plans for an anti-missile system in eastern Europe could trigger a nuclear war, is examined in many papers. interview, Mr Putin says it would be a threat to Russia and it would have to respond. says the message on the eve of the G8 summit is calculated to cause consternation and division. suggests the threat of a new Cold War has a political message but few practical implications. With the focus on the G8 meeting, the makes a point on its front page about how much the world's richest countries are doing for the poor. Britons, for example, spend more on champagne than the government spends on aid - for the Italians it's ice cream. French donations are dwarfed by what is spent on perfume, the paper reports. leads with reports that ministers face a legal challenge that may force them to plough millions of pounds into prison treatment. Aides to David Cameron have told the that the Tory leader is ready to stamp his authority in the party row over grammar schools. says he has been left rattled, amid signs the infighting is continuing to intensify. , the former Tory leader Michael Howard is furious at the ditching of support for academic selection. It says he is now offering private backing to party rebels. say Gordon Brown's announcement on terror laws has angered the Home Office. Outgoing Home Secretary John Reid is preparing to announce his own measures, the papers report. , meanwhile, carries a picture of Mr Brown balancing paperwork on his knee as he sits alongside commuters on the London Underground. The PM-in-waiting took the Piccadilly Line as part of his Gordon Brown for Britain mini-tour, the paper reports. in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/6719817.stm BBC NEWS | England | Body sparks murder investigation Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 15:36 GMT 16:36 UK sparks murder investigation Kate Beagley was reported missing by her family in Surrey Police searching for a woman reported missing from her home in Surrey have launched a murder hunt after a body was discovered in woods in Hertfordshire. Kate Beagley, 32, from Nelson Close, Walton-on-Thames, disappeared after going on a date on 30 May in the Twickenham area of west London. The body of a woman, that has not yet been formally identified, was found on Monday morning at Oxhey Woods, Oxhey. A 27-year-old man was being held in custody, on suspicion of murder. Surrey Police said the man was initially held over the weekend on suspicion of kidnap, and was re-arrested on Monday on suspicion of murder. Supt Jerry Westerman said: "Kate was reported to Surrey Police as a missing person, and from the start, we have taken this extremely seriously. "Our priority has been to try to locate her safe and well, but sadly, as a result of our investigation, the body of a woman has been found. "We have informed the family of Kate Beagley about the discovery of a body, and our thoughts are with Kate's family at this difficult time." Police have erected a tent over an area of Oxhey Woods Miss Beagley was reported missing on Thursday evening by her father after she did not turn up for work and missed appointments. Police believe she had visited the Chiswick and Richmond areas of west London on Wednesday night. They have urged anyone who saw her with a man, described as being black and in his 20s, at the Roebuck pub in Richmond Hill or the park area opposite, to contact them. Police said they were also keen to speak to anyone who saw the couple in or around Oxhey Woods later that evening. Miss Beagley was also believed to have met a man at the CC Club in Piccadilly, central London the previous week. Two cars being sought by police in connection with Miss Beagley's disappearance have been found in Harlesden, north-west London. The scene where the woman's body was found is next to the car parking area of a nature reserve. Officers in Surrey said they were now working with their colleagues from the Hertfordshire Constabulary. Worried friends set up a "Help find Kate" page on the social networking website Facebook. It displayed photos of the missing woman along with pleas to help find out what had happened to her. Miss Beagley's friends have handed out appeal posters featuring her picture. Miss Beagley has worked for British Gas for the past 10 years. AND AUDIO NEWS An aerial view of where the body was found Body found in missing woman hunt 04 Jun 07 | England Family anxious for missing woman 03 Jun 07 | Surrey The admits five crash deaths Bridge death girl spoke of sex attack Investigation into chemical fire family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6721055.stm BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Saville will not get to 'truth' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:00 GMT 21:00 UK will not get to 'truth' Soldiers shot 14 people dead in Derry on Bloody Sunday The inquiry into Bloody Sunday will not uncover the definitive truth surrounding the killings, a former senior civil servant has said. Irish Senator Maurice Hayes said the £175m spent on the inquiry so far could have been put to better use. His comments came at the Tip O'Neill Peace Lecture at the University of Ulster's Magee campus in Londonderry. He warned a fixation with past atrocities could threaten the work of the devolved policitical institutions. "The general political will that the institutions should be made to work (and) should be allowed to do so could easily be frustrated if we insist on picking at the sores of old wounds, raising old ghosts, revive old animosities and suspicions, and most of all shattering the burgeoning trust which is a prerequisite for peaceful co-existence and co-operation, " he said. Mr Hayes is an independent member of the Irish Republic's Senate and a former Northern Ireland Ombudsman. His high-profile career has also included roles as a Permanent Secretary in Northern Ireland's Department of Health and Social Services and on the Patten Commission on policing. In January 1972 paratroopers opened fire during a civil rights march in Derry, killing 14. The Saville Inquiry was established in 1998 by Prime Minister Tony Blair after a campaign by families of those killed and injured. Its findings will not be published until at least the end of next year. Mr Hayes warned against expecting too much from the tribunal. He also suggested other outrages had a case for similar public probes. "I do not believe that the Saville Inquiry will unearth the essential truth, the definitive account of the events on Bloody Sunday, which are so deeply incised on the psyche of this city," he said. "I can think of many better things to do for the families of victims and survivors for £200m. "And if Bloody Sunday, why not inquiries for every other atrocity beginning at Abercorn and ending at Omagh?" return for inquiry Saville inquiry judges retire Soldiers threaten court action Bloody Sunday dead 'innocent' Who were the victims? What happened and how? What they said at the time Full in depth report The Bloody Sunday Inquiry The Cain Research Project The NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Civil service 'fortnight on sick' family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/staffordshire/6721067.stm BBC NEWS | England | Staffordshire | Investigation into chemical fire Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:38 GMT 21:38 UK into chemical fire The smoke could be seen for miles around. Picture by Dean Feasby Mobile footage of fire An investigation is under way into a blaze at a chemical works in Crewe, which sent smoke across the town. The amount of smoke has reduced, but a 400-metre exclusion zone still exists around Aztec Chemicals on Crewe Gates Industrial Estate. The fire is being treated as a major incident and Cheshire Fire Service warned people nearby to stay indoors. The firm believes the fire began in a machine which shreds aerosol cans. Fire crews will monitor the site overnight. There were no reported injuries due to the fire, which is affecting two buildings on the estate. Firefighters have now managed to cool down nearby gas cylinders containing liquid petroleum gas. At its height 85 firefighters were at the scene along with six special appliances, a hazardous materials unit, an aerial appliance and a foam tanker. Initially a 200m exclusion zone was imposed, but this was extended because of the volume of smoke leading to factories and businesses being evacuated. Aztec Chemicals spokesman Karl Chadwick said: "If you looked at the fire about 10 minutes after it started, anybody who was in there would have no chance. "But we got everybody out very quickly and as far as we know nobody in the surrounding area has been injured." Eye witnesses reported hearing popping sounds from the plant. As we know nobody in the surrounding area has been injured at all Karl Chadwick, Aztec Chemicals The blaze in pictures Hugh Wilson, who is a student at the nearby South Cheshire College, said: "We saw a huge amount of smoke going up into the sky and that was when we were about three miles away from where we are now. "When we were getting close it was like a tornado, it was just twisting, there was just so much smoke. "It's just absolutely huge. I can't explain the smell but it's not very nice when you get close up." Cheshire Police said the evacuated properties were industrial and business premises and did not include homes or schools. A spokesman added: "Outside the exclusion zone, the advice for people walking into the path of the smoke from the fire is to find shelter indoors and keep windows and doors closed." Motorists were advised to avoid roads in the area and Crewe town centre. AND AUDIO NEWS The fire started at a chemicals factory Major blaze at chemical factory 04 Jun 07 | England In Pictures: Crewe chemical blaze 04 Jun 07 | In Pictures The into chemical fire Stabbed woman was due to get cash Show cancelled as mark of respect family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/europe/6720455.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Europe | AC Milan admit interest in Henry Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Match of the Day Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:41 GMT 17:41 UK Milan admit interest in Henry Henry was plagued by injury last season AC Milan coach Carlo Ancelotti has admitted that the Italian club want to sign Arsenal striker Thierry Henry. Henry, 29, has long been linked with a move to Barcelona, but Champions League winners Milan now say they want the Frenchman to come to the San Siro. "Henry is a great striker and among the players that we are interested in," said Ancelotti. "Our wish is to acquire a midfielder and a striker but they're all difficult signings to make." Ricardo Oliveira, who joined from Real Betis last summer, has failed to make an impact at Milan while Alberto Gilardino is out of favour with Ancelotti and has already expressed his intention to leave the club. "There is no reason why Gilardino's wish to leave the club cannot come true as we can find an adequate player in exchange," said Ancelotti. "Last summer there weren't many players who wanted to come to Milan but there are more now. "There's one none of you would suspect and if I was to tell you the world would end. We're delighted he wants to play for Milan." Last week, Henry played down reports he was set to quit the Gunners after being linked with Barca and Inter Milan. Should Arsenal sell Henry? Henry said: "Since I started playing football there has been speculation about me going to a lot of clubs and that will never, ever stop. "But as I said, for now I'm an Arsenal player, so there is nothing to add to it." Henry signed a new four-year contract last summer but has since been plagued by injuries and has grown frustrated at Arsenal's inability to mount a title challenge. "It was pretty difficult to see once again that we finished so far away from the top teams," added Henry, whose side finished fourth in the Premiership in the 2006-2007 campaign. "It's always the same top four and I'm actually getting annoyed that we're finishing at the end of the top four now." Your say - 606 BBC London Arsenal audio Confusion over Adebayor ban 30 May 07 | African Fabianski completes Arsenal move 26 May 07 | Arsenal Striker Baptista to leave Arsenal 24 May 07 | Arsenal Henry links his future to Wenger 27 Apr 07 | Arsenal Injury rules Henry out for season 09 Mar 07 | Arsenal Henry to stay a Gunner until 2010 19 May 06 | Arsenal Football on the BBC Your say - 606 The PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Back to top ^^ Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/default.stm BBC NEWS | UK Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:47 GMT 21:47 UK Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Politicians must listen harder to the "calm voice of moderation and reason" of most Muslims, Tony Blair says. Full text: Blair speech on Islam Teaching of Islam is 'out-dated' Body sparks murder inquiry A murder investigation is launched after police looking for a missing woman find a body in Hertfordshire. Empty school places at 758,000 The number of surplus school places in England has risen to 758,000 - the highest level since 1998. Soldier admits five crash deaths Angelika killer's home searched Conductor jailed over sex abuse Investigation into chemical fire Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine Olympics: London logo unveiled ALSO IN THE NEWS Climbers recreate doomed Everest ascent in 1920s gear Russell Brand is on the edge of acceptability - it's official Football: AC Milan 'want Henry' Football: Reds duo extend deals The UK patients who travel to China for stem cell treatment Readers' alternative logos for the London 2012 Olympics From taxation to TV - islanders address our readers' questions VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Orphaned gorilla gets support from siblings Body find sparks murder hunt London logo divides opinion Police search killer's house More Video / Audio News TV AND RADIO PROGRAMMES BBC Ten O'Clock News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Hilton starts jail sentence Amsterdam's nude photo shoot Putin makes nuclear threat London reveals logo for 2012 London logo divides opinion MORE FROM THE UK Level crossings campaign starts Litvinenko demand foolish - Putin 'More inquiries' in honours probe City boss held after girl injured Man 'copied internet rape scene' Million-pound drugs trial fails Man and two children die in fire Cold war warning provides focus Bridge death girl spoke of sex attack Pair jailed for chilli 'torture' Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Penalty for poison case gamekeeper Man charged over girl death crash Cycle deaths road 'not gritted' Death crash driver 'fell asleep' My wife's car has been cloned twice, resulting in penalty notices from the London area Madeleine parents need 'one call' Bank says sorry for cash problems Madeleine parents in Spanish plea Mortar bombs and flying feathers Pope meets parents of Madeleine How to draw attention to your new car - make it out of cake Finds that shine a surprising light on the pre-history of London Missing for 84 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6719755.stm BBC NEWS | Scotland | Edinburgh and East | Man charged over girl death crash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK charged over girl death crash Olivia Donachie died while walking with her mother A man has appeared in court in connection with the death of four-year-old Olivia Donachie in Edinburgh last week. Daniel Jackson, 31, made a brief appearance in private at the city's sheriff court. He has been charged with culpable homicide, failing to stop after an accident and failing to report an accident to the police. Mr Jackson made no plea and was remanded in custody. Olivia died in an incident near her home in Redford Drive on Wednesday afternoon. Her mother, Rachel, 33, suffered serious injuries and is recovering in Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. said for death crash girl 03 Jun 07 | Edinburgh and East Man charged over city road death 02 Jun 07 | Edinburgh and East Lothian and Borders Police The EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Home search in Vicky murder probe Man charged over girl death crash Tesco 24-hour strike called off family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6704009.stm BBC NEWS | Magazine | The champagne overdraft Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 10:58 GMT 11:58 UK folk are trying to buy into the celebrity lifestyle of swanky nightclubs and £5,000 bar bills and plunging themselves into penury as a result. Why? We've all seen pictures of footballers, singers and soap stars stumbling out of "exclusive" clubs and into waiting taxis, label-clad and dripping with jewellery, illuminated by popping flashbulbs. But what of those who try to follow the same lifestyle, but without the funds? Gregory, an IT programmer from Walthamstow, was part of this lifestyle, but ended up in debt after losing all his money and savings following months of excessive spending in London clubs. You don't want to be who you are, you want to be something more than that "I would go out and I would spend a lot of money on drinks, on occasions about £2,000 a night. I used to buy a lot of champagne in the clubs at around £60-£100 per bottle. "Sometimes I'd buy over 10 bottles for myself and for people around me, you want to feel like you are that glamorous so you will be extravagant you will give glasses of champagne to people that you don't even know and you don't even talk to. "It's something that can spiral very easily out of control all because you don't want to be who you are, you want to be something more than that." At a club such as Movida in London's swanky Mayfair the average spend on a table a VIP section is £5,000 per night and it can go as high as £11,000. In footballer-filled bars in Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle, lesser but still significant sums are spent. Clubs like Movida, Pangaea and Boujis have boasted celebrity customers such as Kylie Minogue, Sarah Harding, Lady Victoria Harvey, Beyonce, Jay-Z and even Prince Harry. But stand in an "exclusive" club early in the night and it's confusing. There are groups of girls sitting and chatting, the bar looks empty, the champagne buckets are devoid of fizz. The clubs are replete with pretty girls quaffing champagne But as time goes on a couple of celebrities stroll in, groups of men are led to tables and the gleaming buckets are soon replete with bubbly. Suddenly, the girls who have been waiting, drinkless on the sidelines, gravitate like vultures to men who've paid £600 or more for a table. Some head for the booths that might require a spend of £1,500-£3,000. Each partying table of two or three men can be surrounded by 10 women drinking champagne. It's perhaps a little taste of why some might stretch their budgets to be the centre of attention. Sights can be seen. A man in a knee-length leather waistcoat entertains eight women, while standing on a sofa making hip hop hand signals. A woman "Tango'd" with fake tan bares her surgically-enhanced breasts for a photographer. Andrea owns Feneo, a thriving promotions company. He is used to people like Gregory coveting the glamorous life. "One of the reasons why people come to London's West End is to feel more glamorous and to do something different. Some people feel they will be spotted there, they want to launch their singing, modelling or acting career, they assume that if there are celebrities there that there are going to be paparazzi there too." Leo Ihenacho, a singer with The Streets and a former contestant on Love Island, is familiar with the club circuit and the motivations of the "ordinary". Bar bills in the VIP section range between £5-11,000 "People are thinking if a celebrity is in the same club as them that makes them cool because the celeb is cool so they feel like they're going to the right club". But being around celebrities has its drawbacks to the average earner. Celebrities often go straight to the VIP section of the club. If the clubber is not part of the celebrity entourage they will have to be prepared to dig deep into their wallet for the privilege of fellowship with the rich and famous. Andrea explains that buying bottles of champagne would normally ensure entry into the VIP section where clubbers could rub shoulders with celebrities. "To get a table in a club, £500 is normally the minimum spend but ravers nearly always go over because they buy up lots of champagne so on average, the drink spending on tables can go up to £3,000. The people with regular jobs would pay this but not normally every week." But this expenditure on chasing a dream is a parallel of society's increasing drift towards debt. The Consumer Credit Counselling Service released figures in 2005 that show an increasing number of under-25s are seeking bankruptcy as they struggle to cope with their debts, and the British Lifestyles 2007 report revealed that the British public is spending an increasing amount of money on leisure pursuits. A preoccupation with looking important drove Gregory. Leo Ihenacho was a former contestant on Love Island "You want to feel like you are the man, to escape from your 9-5 and from your same old boring life you want to feel like something you're not, but you're basically going home to the same old place and you're probably in big old debt. But for that night, for those three to four hours you're not really caring about it. "It becomes addictive, you get used to that buzz, it's something that you don't really want to let go of until you hit rock bottom, one day you look at your bank balance and you've got nothing left to spend. "The worst thing is, you end up feeling like exactly what you were trying to escape from - nothing. "You feel lower than you were before because now you have nothing to go out with, you have no groupies none of these girls hanging around you, the friends that you thought were friends disappear." Send us your comments using the form below. This just goes to show what a bunch of idiots the UK is turning out to be. It's almost as bad as the 80's. "A fool and his money are soon parted" - it's old but it's true. This is the entertainment equivilant of living on credit. Rather than saving up (or earning their fame) and then spending their cash on luxury living, they want it now and are prepared to pay over the odds for what they could have cheaper later. After reading the story about the moroccan family living in a toilet, stories like this make me feel very sad. I have no sympathy for people who spend money they cannot afford to try to feel 'good' or impress others. Its a reflection of today's society where kids are used to getting what they want without having to earn it or be taught to apprciate what they have. Parents who spoil their kids and let them have 'things' they are not expected to earn are to blame. If parents taught their children some values instead of indulging them through guilt because they work - or to keep up with their friends' parents perhaps people would grow up understanding the realities of life. I think the cause of this lies in two parts. Firstly there is our national obession with celebrity - not only on TV and in the newspapers but in all these "celebrity" mags where you can see the minutiae of the lives of the rich. Their lives are made to look glamourous and exciting - even their going to the supermarket is built up into something fabulous and special. The other part is that most of us do very boring meaningless jobs (myself included) and people want some excitement in their lives. People spend money on luxuries to reward themselves for the boredom they suffer in work. We Brits are the hardest worked people in Europe - maybe less working hours and a bit more vacation time is in order! I think this only shows one thing...there are people out there who are to stupid to be let out in public, or have a bank account. sad shallow people. Its these people that the hard working majority will be supporting in later years Mugs. I have no sympathy at all. Lord, what fools these mortals be. I don't understand people who feel the need to spend to the point of putting themselves in deep debt just to feel 'cool'. Its pretty pathetic that anyone would want to even play into that image of being surrounded by fake gold digging girls who are only hanging aroung your table for a free drink, hoping that a little of the money getting thrown around might land on them somehow. Spending to 'keep up appearances' is incredibly juvenile and pointless and a huge indicator of the wasteful mentality of the West. Betty Crocker, Berkshire, UK Tell me about it. I save each month, I don't drive a flash car, and for the last few years I wondered how seemingly everyone else had huge salary increases, whilst I was "comfortable" but without the means to splash out on champagne and sports cars. As the year passes I'm becoming more and more concerned that our economy seems to be largely fuelled by personal debt. The country certainly appears to be "richer" than I ever remember, but the illusion seems to be shattering. And what will be the cost to those of us who have been careful if the economy falls around our ears? It does worry me. I have no sympathy for people who go and spend £1000+ a night in a rubbish bar, just because some z-list celebrity who once appeared on Big Brother goes there. My advice for those people is: Grow up! It seems a shame when people are so shallow that they think by hanging in these clubs, makes them better. I can understand when people join social activities to further their career and to make business contacts. But the "celebs" certainly wouldnt be there if any of these wannabe's needed help would they? and the girls would quickly disappear without the money and free drinks. Give me true friends anytime and a social circle where I am can be myself. Am I the only one who finds the celebrity culture embarrassing? Andrew White, Koln, Germany Why would you want to spend your free time with shallow, vacuous people who pretend to like you, but who will drop you like a hot potato when the money runs out? How empty must life be before that's a good way to spend a night out? Crikey! I have no time for that i'm too busy working so I can pay my council tax, inflated gas bill, the VAT on air. I don't know where these young people get the time. If I live like a celebrity and go over my budget and end up with debt, the government will pick up the tab. There should be tighter policies to ensure the government (tax payer dont pay for the outragous lifstyles of others) How very sad; to think that apart from the fact that so called 'celebs' have nothing better to do with their money than court a few hours friendship from some unknown people; the poor unknown people (as they see themselves) are copying the 'celebs'.GET A LIFE. I remember my Dad sitting and listening to some friends trying to outdo each other in how much their house, car holidays etc cost, when they asked him he said I live in a council house which may not be mine but I don't owe anyone anything and I have a beautiful wife and 4 wonderful children so I don't need the exensive house, car holiday as I see it I have much more than money can buy. Think on it and reflect on why your life is so sad that you need to throw money away on rubbish! Words fail me. Stupid people thinking they'll look cool ruining themselves on bubbly, to be like the celebs and footballers. Hey idiots, these "stars" earn millions so they can afford it. Simple really! I can't think this happens to many people. Those it does happen too are very very inadequate sad people. I don't even understand the drive? I'd love to be a millionaire but can't think of anything less appealing than being a celebrity. Someone knows someone who spoke to someone who cleaned the toilets at a TV studio. They must be a 'celebrity' in their eyes, not someone who was plucked from obscurity and made to behave like a fool on a ridiculous TV programme for the nations amusement. Then other people want to emulate them and go broke in the process. God give me strength. When is it going to be a case of going out for the sake of having a good time without getting totally off your face. People do this to be part of the in crowd no matter where you go or how much you have to spend, its a case of how much can I get down my throat in as quick a time as possible, being rich does not make you a different type of alcoholic. In the end they all end up the same, nothing. How can these people not see it coming? A couple of thousand a night to just pretend they are popular. Clearly the only ones with any intelligence are the flirty blondes who get free drinks off the naive and gullible. They deserve to go broke, the saddest thing is they get bailed out by declaring bankruptcy, if they were made to pay off their debts, they may think twice about doing it again. These people are absolutely patheitc, bring back the debtors prison and throw away the key. If they can't cope with reality then they shouldn't be part of society. Millions of people in this country get on with their lives no matter what hardship the have to endure. This is just a symptom of the lack of personal responsibility in the young. Families coddle their children, trying to shield them all ills. Then they wonder why their grown-up child doesn't have a clue about real life. Caroline Brown, Rochester, UK I feel sorry for Gregory, he obviously has extremely low self esteem and is delusional to think that anyone he hardly knows sipping his free champagne is interested in being his friend. Its much more rewarding to avoid these fake big brother loser and wannabe WAG hang outs and instead sit in a nice beer garden with real friends you can actually have a reasonably intellectual conversation and a laugh with. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing the celebrity dream? The Skoda made of sponge cake Don't look for instant gratification YOUR HISTORY OF BRITAIN Go back in time Bomb sites, family reunions... your home videos of the 1960s Your 1960s in words, pics, videos Modern History of Britain Daily Mini-Quiz: The CO2 table 10 things: No 10 has no keyhole VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX Consumer Credit Counselling Service The family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6717755.stm BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Man and two children die in fire Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 14:23 GMT 15:23 UK and two children die in fire Police are treating the fire at the house as suspicious A father and his two young children who died in a "suspicious" house fire in Devon have been named locally. Fire crews were sent to the house on Gowmans Terrace in North Tawton after receiving a call in the early hours. Iain Varma, 34, and Chloe, four, died at the scene. Zak, eight, died upon arrival at hospital. His wife, Alison, and son Lee, two, were not there. The children's 59-year-old grandfather was arrested but has been released with no further action to be taken. The incident is being treated as suspicious and a major investigation has been launched. They were lovely children - they used to wave to me from their back garden Mrs Varma, who works in the local pub and is a governor at the nearby school, was said to be traumatised by the incident. Neighbour Violet Marsh, 84, said: "I saw smoke coming out of the window, there were no flames at all. "I did not realise it was such a severe fire. "They were lovely children. They used to wave to me from their back garden when they were on their climbing frame." Ch Supt Barry Marsden said they were keeping an open mind into the investigation and had called for anyone with information about the family at the address to call Crimestoppers. A Home Office pathologist has arrived at the scene and a forensic investigation is being carried out. Neighbouring homes were evacuated and people taken to the local pub, the Copper Key, while up to 20 firefighters tackled the blaze. Up to 90% of the first floor of the home was destroyed. Another neighbour, who would only give her name as Jo, said: "It is always a tragedy when kids are involved. "I heard someone shout 'get the kids out'." She said the family had lived in the area for about three years after moving from London. AND AUDIO NEWS Police are treating the incident as serious Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service The and two children die in fire Town poised for its own currency Council urged to rethink casino family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
