http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7756477.html Driver sparks chaos with reckless U-turns sparks chaos with reckless U-turns PM PDT MARYSVILLE, Wash. -- State troopers are looking for the wrong-way driver who sparked chaos on Interstate-5 through Marysville by making reckless U-turns on Wednesday morning. A driver on the on-ramp from 88th Street to the northbound lanes of I-5 turned left at the bottom of the ramp and headed into oncoming traffic. A driver in a black car swerved to miss her, lost control and hit the cable barrier. "Impacted the cable barrier and went halfway up the embankment to the bridge pillar and the cable brought him back down," said Dave Nearing, a witness. That second driver, who is described as an Everett man, was not hurt. The wrong-way driver continued to head south in the northbound lanes, made another u-turn and headed up the exit ramp back to 88th Street Northeast. "There was simply no reason for her to do what she did, put that many lives at risk," said Trooper Kirk Rudeen. "It is simply inexcusable. We want to find her and talk to her." Troopers describe the driver as a blond woman in her 20s. They believe she was driving a brown Honda Civic or Accord. Anyone who witnessed the reckless driver or know her whereabouts is urged to contact the Washington State Patrol. sparks chaos with reckless U-turns
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7754772.html Partially decomposed body found in southwest Washington decomposed body found in southwest Washington PM PDT STEVENSON, Wash. (AP) - The Skamania County sheriff's office reported that a partially decomposed body has been discovered in a wooded area 21 miles east of Cougar. Undersheriff David Cox says the body is believed to be that of 64-year-old Janet Durall, of Quartzite, Arizona. Cox says the body was found last Saturday after an extensive search of possible locations in the area surrounding the southern flanks of Mount St. Helens. An autopsy has been conducted and detectives are awaiting the results. The sheriff's office says information which led to the discovery of the body was obtained through interviews with William Spear, of Camp Verde, Arizona. Cox says Spear and Durall were vacationing in the area. He says they were boyfriend and girlfriend. Cox says Spear abandoned the body and returned to Arizona before contacting authorities. An investigation is continuing, but Cox says there is no indication that foul play took place.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7752072.html Toddler recovering after being dragged by dog recovering after being dragged by dog Dog drags baby down street in freak accident PM PDT By Joe English and KATU Web Staff LONGVIEW, Wash. - A Longview toddler who was dragged by a large dog down an alleyway is still in the hospital, but his condition is greatly improved, according to doctors and the boy's family. The 18-month-old boy, named Lincoln, was in his stroller out on a walk with his mother and the family dog, a large Pit Bull/Mastiff mix, when his mother says something spooked the dog and it began to run off. The dog's leash reportedly caught the stroller and the powerful, 100 pound dog pulled the baby carrier with Lincoln inside down an alleyway strewn with gravel. The stroller overturned, and Lincoln, still strapped in, was pulled along the ground for several blocks. Passersby and the boy's mother and her fiancee eventually caught up with the dog, but Lincoln was badly injured. Following treatment for a fractured skull, doctors and family say Lincoln is recovering but still has gravel embedded in his body. He still has heavy wrappings on his head and will need to stay in the hospital for a few more days. His arms and back were also injured, but less severely. Doctors say they are not sure if Lincoln suffered any brain damage or if the incident will have any lasting effect on the boy. His mother, Twylah Miller, says he is getting back to his normal behavior and is a little cranky, which she says is a good sign. But she also said he is having nightmares about the incident. The family said the dog is a good dog but they have decided to return him to the Humane Society where they got him. Police say they believe the dog is not dangerous and no charges will be filed in connection with the incident.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7757477.html Seattle Central to hold classes despite threat Central to hold classes despite threat PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Despite a threat of mass killings, Seattle Central Community College on Capitol Hill will remain open on Thursday, but there will be increased security. The college says late last week, a student discovered a threat written on a toilet paper dispenser in a men's restroom that said: "I will kill everyone at SCCC on May 31." College spokeswoman Laura Mansfield says the person who wrote the threat hasn't been caught. Mansfield says Seattle police officers will patrol the campus on Thursday, and college staff will hand out fliers to students as they arrive on campus informing them of the threat. Mansfield says the college warned the campus community about the threat in an e-mail on Friday and again on Wednesday. The campus president also posted a message on the college's Web site. The college's Broadway Edison and Science and Mathematics buildings will be on lockdown. In April, a University of Washington employee was shot and killed in her campus office by her ex-boyfriend in April.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local Ship sickens 2 local families on 2 separate trips Dolores and Herman Warfield fell sick with the norwalk virus on their third day on the Norwegian Star's Alaska cruise. Gina Schacht boarded the ship the same day the Warfields disembarked, and she also fell sick with the virus. More Scam targets identities of soldiers overseas Thieves are using the Red Cross' name to target the family members of soldiers deployed overseas. Claiming the soldier has been injured, the thieves reportedly demand the soldiers' personal information. Seattle Central to hold classes despite threat Despite a threat of mass killings, Seattle Central Community College on Capitol Hill will remain open on Thursday, but there will be increased security. 'Basically I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up.' Seattle gets sneak peek at summer approves renewed gray whale hunting by Makahs Toddler recovering after being dragged by dog Partially decomposed body found in southwest Washington Driver sparks chaos with reckless U-turns towns anxiously await word on passport requirements Bear sighting shuts down Weyerhaeuser plant Rep. McMorris-Rodgers baby diagnosed with Down syndrome State, feds enter negotiations over Hanford cleanup Jewish center shooter pleads insanity Ft. Lewis to consolidate soldier memorials ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture Auburn: Make road improvements before more people are killed Skeleton of adult found in Adams County orchard Moms step up fight against pedophile Tires jar loose off semi and smash car on I-90 Daugherty released from the hospital Satterberg named acting King County prosecutor Senators urge compromise over BPA rates Ethics Board: State senator didn't use clout to benefit son UW scientists offering reward to recover seismic equipment Murder charge filed in toddler's beating death Bremerton tennis star dies in fall from condo Study to examine climate change within state Man shot multiple times during home-invasion robbery The cognac's gone, but the memories live on Search for missing plane called off Woman drowns after raft flips in state park 'It's a missing piece of my whole life' Manhunt over for felon near Everett Self-proclaimed pedophile blogs disturbing comments Tracking cougars is no easy task Vandals replace flags with swastikas at vets' graves Injured man rescued from 7,000-foot peak Man arrested after car crash on airport runway Police: Man shot after trying to run down state trooper Gray Whale's death probed by scientists State mental hospital grapples with rise in patient violence Members of fire-damaged church gather under tarps Missing Naval officer spotted at border
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7744402.html AM AM PDT RICHLAND, Wash. (AP) - A 17-year-old baby sitter has been nine-month-old boy in Richland. The mother told police she had left the baby with a neighbor boy and when she returned home early yesterday she found the baby had been injured. The severity of the injuries required the baby to be taken to Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane. The Richland teen was booked into the Benton County Juvenile Justice Center.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7759372.html Scam targets identities of soldiers overseas targets identities of soldiers overseas 2007 at 7:22 AM PDT Thieves are targeting the families of military families all over the country by lying about casualties of war. The scam involves thieves calling families of military personnel deployed overseas and claiming to be with the American Red Cross. Thieves reportedly tell the family members their loved one has been injured overseas. The scammers then ask for the soldier's personal information in order to complete the paperwork needed for medical treatment. Red Cross representatives say the agency never calls families asking for personal information. It also does not inform families of injuries or deaths. "If anybody does come to you and asks you questions that seem strange or suspicious, you don't want to give away any of your personal information," said Katherine Boury with the Red Cross. "You want to call your local Red Cross and say, 'this doesn't seem right.'" Boury says similar scams have surfaced in the past during natural disasters or a national crisis. "Hurricane Katrina, September 11th. There are sometimes going to be people that misrepresent the Red Cross, and so we take that very seriously," she said. Fort Lewis spokesperson Blake Draheim said that soldiers and their families are briefed on what to expect in the event of an emergency call. If a soldier is injured or killed, family members should expect a personal knock on the door or a direct call from a member of the overseas unit. "We're out here serving our country .Why try to steal our identity? We're out here fighting for you," Draheim said. "Our social security number that we have is our paycheck, everything. It's our whole career and without that, we're in trouble."
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7759477.html Ship sickens 2 local families on 2 separate trips sickens 2 local families on 2 separate trips PM PDT Two local families say they got sick on the same cruise ship, but on two separate trips. Dolores and Herman Warfield just returned from their 22nd cruise adventure on the Norwegian Star's Alaska cruise. They paid for a seven-day trip, but their vacation was over in just 72 hours. "On the third day out, we both came down with the norwalk virus," Dolores said. The couple was quarantined in their cabin, leaving only to see the ship's doctor. During their frequent visits to the infirmary, they learned other passengers had fallen sick as well. But there was no way to know exactly how many; the Warfields say the staff never made an announcement and never warned passengers of the sick quarantined in their cabins. Norwegian Cruise Line confirmed in a statement that six percent of their passengers, or roughly 130 people, reported symptoms of the stomach flu. The cruise line stated it carried out an extensive range of preventative measures on board, and did not expect the issue would carry forward into the next cruise. But it did. Gina Schacht boarded the Star the same day the Warfields disembarked. As a 75-year-old diabetic awaiting a kidney transplant, the Alaska cruise was her last vacation. She and her daughter came home a week later with a big bill and memories they'd rather forget. "Trip from hell I say, because all my time I spent in a cabin, being sick," she said. Schacht says the cruise credited her $275 for some expenses, but not the cost of what should've been her dream trips. "I think I spent my money for nothing, if I'm gonna be sick, I'll be sick at home. I don't have to spend over a $1,000 to lay in bed," she said. In an official statement, Norwegian Cruise Line never says it was the norwalk virus that sickened the people on board, though passengers tell KOMO 4 News the ship's doctor confirmed it. Schacht says she fortunately bought traveler's insurance, and hopes to be reimbursed for the days she missed. The Warfields hope to be reimbursed for the $200 they spend at the infirmary.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7748557.html Seattle gets sneak peek at summer gets sneak peek at summer AM PM PDT "In a world... where clouds are non-existent, and shade has become a precious commodity, one city's residents will do what it takes to fend off an infrared invasion. It's: Seattle Summer....'07!" Pirates, green ogres and a superhero who means it literally when he says he's created a web site might be the talk of May so far, but the real trailer for our blockbuster summer might have edged them all. The heart of summer is still a good 5-6 weeks away, but today is a good preview of what might be coming soon to a thermometer near you. A strong ridge of high pressure has combined with a thermal trough to bring sunny and hot weather to most of western Washington today. How hot? Most the area from Everett south were well into the 80s. Seattle tied its record high for the day at 87 degrees, set also in 1956. Here's how some of the other cities did: As far as we know, Seattle's was the only record to fall. It wasn't quite an area-wide heat wave -- the coast and areas along the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the northern islands only reached the 70s. To wit, Port Angeles only hit 71, while Oak Harbor was at 67 and it was the mid 70s along the coast. For those new to the area over the winter and aren't familiar with how Seattle heat waves go, we're a bit lucky in when we do get hot around here, it's more of a desert-dry heat than a humid Midwestern heat. To get hot here, we have to hold back the cool, ocean air, and the way to do that is to have an east wind. But as an added effect, as that air comes from the east and sinks down the Cascade Mountains, it gets warmer and drier. To wit: humidities today are in the 15-30% range. We're also lucky in the sense that it's difficult for heat waves to last too long -- typically 2-3 days at the most, and rarely four days -- because eventually that thermal trough will move off to our east, the west wind will overpower the east wind and kick in what we call our "natural air conditioning." And, lo and behold, our "natural air conditioning" is set to get going tonight -- although it'll be on the "low" setting. For Thursday, we're expecting another sunny day, but somewhat cooler as we get more of a light marine wind instead of the warmer offshore wind. Highs will drop to the upper 70s around Seattle, and low 80s in the warmer spots. A much bigger change will be felt along the coast and along the Strait of Juan de Fuca, where the marine air will be more influential. Highs there will drop back to the 60s there. Friday is looking about the same for highs -- maybe a few degrees cooler as we could see brief period of morning clouds, but sunshine for a vast majority of the day. We might actually bounce up a few degrees to the low 80s for Saturday as the marine flow weakens again. The flow turns to the south for late Saturday into Sunday in advance of a front that will be approaching offshore. That is a recipe for adding a muggy feel to the air and perhaps touching off a few showers or thunderstorms over the Cascades that could drift over the lowlands. So far, we're thinking most will stay dry, but this will bear watching and we'll toss a few drops on the extended forecast for now. Temperatures will cool a bit for Sunday but might feel warmer with the humidity. Rain returns for Monday, and then dry and cool (well, relatively cool. Actually, it's about normal) for Tuesday and Wednesday amid partly sunny skies and highs in the upper 60s before rain returns for the end of the week. Maybe the perfect time to catch up on some of the real May blockbusters?
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7756807.html Commission approves renewed gray whale hunting by Makahs approves renewed gray whale hunting by Makahs PM PDT PORT ANGELES, Wash. (AP) - The Makah Tribe of Washington state has won approval by the International Whaling Commission for renewed subsistence hunting of gray whales, although the issue remains tied up in the courts. The panel, meeting in Anchorage, Alaska, voted Tuesday to allow the Makahs to kill up to 20 whales in the next five years. Subsistence hunts also were approved for aboriginal groups in Alaska and Russia. The tribe still needs a waiver from the federal Marine Mammal Protection Act before conducting another gray whale hunt, so commission approval was largely a symbolic victory, Tribal Council member Micah McCarty told radio station KONP of Port Angeles. In the commission-sanctioned resumption of a centuries-old tribal tradition in 1999, the Makahs killed their first gray whale in 70 years. After two unsuccessful family hunts in 2000, the issue became ensnarled in legal wrangling.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7757162.html 'Basically I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up.' I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up.' PM PDT A mother is trying to make sense of a tragedy that took three lives and left her son in a coma. A drunk, wrong-way driver hit Joline Heldt's son, Sean Heldt. He doesn't know yet that his girlfriend was killed in the crash. Sean's family is holding his hand, talking to him. He's still deep in a coma, induced to keep down swelling on his brain. Joline still does the talks to her son. "Basically I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up," she said. Joline whispers those words, believing her can hear her through all the tubes, casts and the fog of medication. "He's got to come out of this so he can see his son, and be around to raise his son," she said. The drunk driver almost hit Sgt. J.P. McAuliffe before slamming head-on into Sean's car. McAuliffe talked to a witness. "She said 'you just missed him, he just hit a car head-on', and it's the worst thing I've seen in my life." The drunk driver was going the wrong way on I-90 over Snoqualmie pass. Sean's girlfriend Christina Grimsley died in the collision, along with the intoxicated driver,Nicholas Curtis, and his two-year-old son. Grimsley's daughter, who was in a child seat, survived. Sean's son wasn't in the car. "With the kind of injury Sean ended up with, two cars colliding at 70 miles an hour, there's bound to be injuries, brain damage," Joline said. It's the reality Joline faces. She faces it with the belief the son she remembers will open his eyes again. "I have to believe he's going to come out of it, because if I don't have the hope he will, why even come," she said. State troopers are urging witnesses of the accident to contact them. Sean's families asking for help too. He's not insured. There is a fund set up under his name at all U.S. Bank locations.
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7752072.html Toddler recovering after being dragged by dog after being dragged by dog Dog drags baby down street in freak accident PM PDT PM PDT By Joe English and KATU Web Staff LONGVIEW, Wash. - A Longview toddler who was dragged by a large dog down an alleyway is still in the hospital, but his condition is greatly improved, according to doctors and the boy's family. The 18-month-old boy, named Lincoln, was in his stroller out on a walk with his mother and the family dog, a large Pit Bull/Mastiff mix, when his mother says something spooked the dog and it began to run off. The dog's leash reportedly caught the stroller and the powerful, 100 pound dog pulled the baby carrier with Lincoln inside down an alleyway strewn with gravel. The stroller overturned, and Lincoln, still strapped in, was pulled along the ground for several blocks. Passersby and the boy's mother and her fiancee eventually caught up with the dog, but Lincoln was badly injured. Following treatment for a fractured skull, doctors and family say Lincoln is recovering but still has gravel embedded in his body. He still has heavy wrappings on his head and will need to stay in the hospital for a few more days. His arms and back were also injured, but less severely. Doctors say they are not sure if Lincoln suffered any brain damage or if the incident will have any lasting effect on the boy. His mother, Twylah Miller, says he is getting back to his normal behavior and is a little cranky, which she says is a good sign. But she also said he is having nightmares about the incident. The family said the dog is a good dog but they have decided to return him to the Humane Society where they got him. Police say they believe the dog is not dangerous and no charges will be filed in connection with the incident. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7757477.html Seattle Central to hold classes despite threat to hold classes despite threat PM PDT PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Despite a threat of mass killings, Seattle Central Community College on Capitol Hill will remain open on Thursday, but there will be increased security. The college says late last week, a student discovered a threat written on a toilet paper dispenser in a men's restroom that said: "I will kill everyone at SCCC on May 31." College spokeswoman Laura Mansfield says the person who wrote the threat hasn't been caught. Mansfield says Seattle police officers will patrol the campus on Thursday, and college staff will hand out fliers to students as they arrive on campus informing them of the threat. Mansfield says the college warned the campus community about the threat in an e-mail on Friday and again on Wednesday. The campus president also posted a message on the college's Web site. The college's Broadway Edison and Science and Mathematics buildings will be on lockdown. In April, a University of Washington employee was shot and killed in her campus office by her ex-boyfriend in April. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local the bear captured in Federal Way A bear that state wildlife officials nicknamed "Columbus" due to his penchant for exploring area neighborhoods has been caught on the Weyerhaeuser campus in Federal Way. Officials believe it is the same bear that has been spotted throughout south King County over the last week. More Ship sickens 2 local families on 2 separate trips Dolores and Herman Warfield fell sick with the norwalk virus on their third day on the Norwegian Star's Alaska cruise. Gina Schacht boarded the ship the same day the Warfields disembarked, and she also fell sick with the virus. Scam targets identities of soldiers overseas Thieves are using the Red Cross' name to target the family members of soldiers deployed overseas. Claiming the soldier has been injured, the thieves reportedly demand the soldiers' personal information. Seattle Central to hold classes despite threat 'Basically I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up.' Seattle gets sneak peek at summer approves renewed gray whale hunting by Makahs Toddler recovering after being dragged by dog Partially decomposed body found in southwest Washington Driver sparks chaos with reckless U-turns 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle Border towns anxiously await word on passport requirements Bear sighting shuts down Weyerhaeuser plant Rep. McMorris-Rodgers baby diagnosed with Down syndrome State, feds enter negotiations over Hanford cleanup Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Two dead in Eatonville crash Accused Jewish center shooter pleads insanity Ft. Lewis to consolidate soldier memorials ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture Auburn: Make road improvements before more people are killed Skeleton of adult found in Adams County orchard Moms step up fight against pedophile Tires jar loose off semi and smash car on I-90 Daugherty released from the hospital Satterberg named acting King County prosecutor Senators urge compromise over BPA rates Ethics Board: State senator didn't use clout to benefit son UW scientists offering reward to recover seismic equipment Murder charge filed in toddler's beating death Bremerton tennis star dies in fall from condo Study to examine climate change within state Man shot multiple times during home-invasion robbery The cognac's gone, but the memories live on Search for missing plane called off Woman drowns after raft flips in state park 'It's a missing piece of my whole life' Manhunt over for felon near Everett Self-proclaimed pedophile blogs disturbing comments Tracking cougars is no easy task Vandals replace flags with swastikas at vets' graves Injured man rescued from 7,000-foot peak Man arrested after car crash on airport runway Police: Man shot after trying to run down state trooper Gray Whale's death probed by scientists State mental hospital grapples with rise in patient violence Members of fire-damaged church gather under tarps Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7744402.html PDT AM PDT RICHLAND, Wash. (AP) - A 17-year-old baby sitter has been nine-month-old boy in Richland. The mother told police she had left the baby with a neighbor boy and when she returned home early yesterday she found the baby had been injured. The severity of the injuries required the baby to be taken to Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane. The Richland teen was booked into the Benton County Juvenile Justice Center. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7759477.html Ship sickens 2 local families on 2 separate trips 2 local families on 2 separate trips PM PDT PM PDT Two local families say they got sick on the same cruise ship, but on two separate trips. Dolores and Herman Warfield just returned from their 22nd cruise adventure on the Norwegian Star's Alaska cruise. They paid for a seven-day trip, but their vacation was over in just 72 hours. "On the third day out, we both came down with the norwalk virus," Dolores said. The couple was quarantined in their cabin, leaving only to see the ship's doctor. During their frequent visits to the infirmary, they learned other passengers had fallen sick as well. But there was no way to know exactly how many; the Warfields say the staff never made an announcement and never warned passengers of the sick quarantined in their cabins. Norwegian Cruise Line confirmed in a statement that six percent of their passengers, or roughly 130 people, reported symptoms of the stomach flu. The cruise line stated it carried out an extensive range of preventative measures on board, and did not expect the issue would carry forward into the next cruise. But it did. Gina Schacht boarded the Star the same day the Warfields disembarked. As a 75-year-old diabetic awaiting a kidney transplant, the Alaska cruise was her last vacation. She and her daughter came home a week later with a big bill and memories they'd rather forget. "Trip from hell I say, because all my time I spent in a cabin, being sick," she said. Schacht says the cruise credited her $275 for some expenses, but not the cost of what should've been her dream trips. "I think I spent my money for nothing, if I'm gonna be sick, I'll be sick at home. I don't have to spend over a $1,000 to lay in bed," she said. In an official statement, Norwegian Cruise Line never says it was the norwalk virus that sickened the people on board, though passengers tell KOMO 4 News the ship's doctor confirmed it. Schacht says she fortunately bought traveler's insurance, and hopes to be reimbursed for the days she missed. The Warfields hope to be reimbursed for the $200 they spend at the infirmary. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7757162.html 'Basically I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up.' tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up.' PM PDT PM PDT A mother is trying to make sense of a tragedy that took three lives and left her son in a coma. A drunk, wrong-way driver hit Joline Heldt's son, Sean Heldt. He doesn't know yet that his girlfriend was killed in the crash. Sean's family is holding his hand, talking to him. He's still deep in a coma, induced to keep down swelling on his brain. Joline still does the talks to her son. "Basically I tell him to wake up. He's got to wake up," she said. Joline whispers those words, believing her can hear her through all the tubes, casts and the fog of medication. "He's got to come out of this so he can see his son, and be around to raise his son," she said. The drunk driver almost hit Sgt. J.P. McAuliffe before slamming head-on into Sean's car. McAuliffe talked to a witness. "She said 'you just missed him, he just hit a car head-on', and it's the worst thing I've seen in my life." The drunk driver was going the wrong way on I-90 over Snoqualmie pass. Sean's girlfriend Christina Grimsley died in the collision, along with the intoxicated driver,Nicholas Curtis, and his two-year-old son. Grimsley's daughter, who was in a child seat, survived. Sean's son wasn't in the car. "With the kind of injury Sean ended up with, two cars colliding at 70 miles an hour, there's bound to be injuries, brain damage," Joline said. It's the reality Joline faces. She faces it with the belief the son she remembers will open his eyes again. "I have to believe he's going to come out of it, because if I don't have the hope he will, why even come," she said. State troopers are urging witnesses of the accident to contact them. Sean's families asking for help too. He's not insured. There is a fund set up under his name at all U.S. Bank locations. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7766312.html 'Columbus' the bear captured in Federal Way bear captured in Federal Way May 31, 2007 at 9:22 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 9:53 AM PDT FEDERAL WAY, Wash. -- Officials say a bear that was spotted throughout south King County over the last week has been captured. The 205-pound black bear was found in a trap on the Weyerhaeuser campus in Federal Way on Thursday morning. The trails around the campus were closed Wednesday after the bear was spotted earlier in the week. Wildlife officers believe it is the same bear that swam from Maury Island to Des Moines on May 25. The caretaker at the lighthouse on Maury Island saw it all. He told state biologists the bear was swimming fast -- it took him only one hour to make the two-mile swim. The bear came ashore around Saltwater State Park. At the same time, the state says a commercial boat radioed the Coast Guard saying they had seen a swimming bear. Soon after the bear arrived in Des Moines, surprised neighbors started calling Fish and Wildlife agents saying "hey there's a bear in my front yard." "He wandered right up here and he actually looked at me," said Phi Tieskoetter. "And I wondered 'Hey, is this actually a bear or a dog?' And he looked at me and I was like 'Holy cow, it's a bear.' " Wildlife officials have named the bear "Columbus," since he appears to be quite an explorer. "This is the breeding season," said State Wildlife Biologist Rocky Spencer. "And if it's a male searching for a receptive female, he might go a long way for that. It's hard to say." The bear caught Thursday was sedated and will likely be transported to a remote area of the Cascade Mountains to be released. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7756807.html Commission approves renewed gray whale hunting by Makahs renewed gray whale hunting by Makahs PM PDT PM PDT PORT ANGELES, Wash. (AP) - The Makah Tribe of Washington state has won approval by the International Whaling Commission for renewed subsistence hunting of gray whales, although the issue remains tied up in the courts. The panel, meeting in Anchorage, Alaska, voted Tuesday to allow the Makahs to kill up to 20 whales in the next five years. Subsistence hunts also were approved for aboriginal groups in Alaska and Russia. The tribe still needs a waiver from the federal Marine Mammal Protection Act before conducting another gray whale hunt, so commission approval was largely a symbolic victory, Tribal Council member Micah McCarty told radio station KONP of Port Angeles. In the commission-sanctioned resumption of a centuries-old tribal tradition in 1999, the Makahs killed their first gray whale in 70 years. After two unsuccessful family hunts in 2000, the issue became ensnarled in legal wrangling. Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7748557.html Seattle gets sneak peek at summer sneak peek at summer AM PDT PM PDT "In a world... where clouds are non-existent, and shade has become a precious commodity, one city's residents will do what it takes to fend off an infrared invasion. It's: Seattle Summer....'07!" Pirates, green ogres and a superhero who means it literally when he says he's created a web site might be the talk of May so far, but the real trailer for our blockbuster summer might have edged them all. The heart of summer is still a good 5-6 weeks away, but today is a good preview of what might be coming soon to a thermometer near you. A strong ridge of high pressure has combined with a thermal trough to bring sunny and hot weather to most of western Washington today. How hot? Most the area from Everett south were well into the 80s. Seattle tied its record high for the day at 87 degrees, set also in 1956. Here's how some of the other cities did: As far as we know, Seattle's was the only record to fall. It wasn't quite an area-wide heat wave -- the coast and areas along the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the northern islands only reached the 70s. To wit, Port Angeles only hit 71, while Oak Harbor was at 67 and it was the mid 70s along the coast. For those new to the area over the winter and aren't familiar with how Seattle heat waves go, we're a bit lucky in when we do get hot around here, it's more of a desert-dry heat than a humid Midwestern heat. To get hot here, we have to hold back the cool, ocean air, and the way to do that is to have an east wind. But as an added effect, as that air comes from the east and sinks down the Cascade Mountains, it gets warmer and drier. To wit: humidities today are in the 15-30% range. We're also lucky in the sense that it's difficult for heat waves to last too long -- typically 2-3 days at the most, and rarely four days -- because eventually that thermal trough will move off to our east, the west wind will overpower the east wind and kick in what we call our "natural air conditioning." And, lo and behold, our "natural air conditioning" is set to get going tonight -- although it'll be on the "low" setting. For Thursday, we're expecting another sunny day, but somewhat cooler as we get more of a light marine wind instead of the warmer offshore wind. Highs will drop to the upper 70s around Seattle, and low 80s in the warmer spots. A much bigger change will be felt along the coast and along the Strait of Juan de Fuca, where the marine air will be more influential. Highs there will drop back to the 60s there. Friday is looking about the same for highs -- maybe a few degrees cooler as we could see brief period of morning clouds, but sunshine for a vast majority of the day. We might actually bounce up a few degrees to the low 80s for Saturday as the marine flow weakens again. The flow turns to the south for late Saturday into Sunday in advance of a front that will be approaching offshore. That is a recipe for adding a muggy feel to the air and perhaps touching off a few showers or thunderstorms over the Cascades that could drift over the lowlands. So far, we're thinking most will stay dry, but this will bear watching and we'll toss a few drops on the extended forecast for now. Temperatures will cool a bit for Sunday but might feel warmer with the humidity. Rain returns for Monday, and then dry and cool (well, relatively cool. Actually, it's about normal) for Tuesday and Wednesday amid partly sunny skies and highs in the upper 60s before rain returns for the end of the week. Maybe the perfect time to catch up on some of the real May blockbusters? Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7815882.html 'Some of us still feel like we're back over there' & Regional 'Some of us still feel like we're back over there' Jun 3, 2007 at 5:25 PM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 5:25 PM PDT Army National Guard soldiers from Washington are celebrating a homecoming from Afghanistan. They are safe, but not unscarred. Their military intelligence unit is based at Camp Murray in Pierce County. The flicker of digital images of a war fought by neighbors, fathers and mothers filled a screen with images a world away. Those faces in fatigues up on the wall sat among family on Saturday. The 341st Military Intelligence Battalion, and 205th Regiment spent an almost a year in harm's way. Sgt Earnest Gonzalez served in remote outposts with the Afghan Army. He and others earned the bronze star for their valor. "We did what we had to do, lost some people, pulled back, reorganized and came after them," Gonzalez said. But now all images of war are fading like pictures on a scene. "Some of us still feel like we're back over there, going through hell, stuff of like that," he said. "But you know it's good, good to be back, good to try to get rid of some of those feeling of things and things that happened over there." And build new memories after missing once-in-a-lifetime moments that happened over here. Captain Nathan Howard with the 341st came home to meet his 14-month-old son, Max. "I was in Afghanistan when Max was born," he said. "My wife was very good and put up with me being gone." Now every member of the 341st and 205th has returned. They all returned back to Washington, Gonzalez said, because they all went to war together. "A lot of people played a key role in the success of us coming back alive," he said. The two units have more than 100 citizen soldiers combined. It is not known if or when they'll be deployed again. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7823787.html Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder & Regional Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder Jun 4, 2007 at 8:13 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 8:38 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The U.S. Supreme Court reinstated the death sentence Monday for Cal Coburn Brown, who carjacked a Burien woman in 1991 and raped and tortured her to death. Brown initially won a reprieve by arguing that a potential juror was wrongly excluded from his trial. The court, in a 5-4 decision, said that the Washington judge who presided over the trial of Cal Coburn Brown properly used his discretion to excuse a potential juror who expressed equivocal views about the death penalty. The juror in question was challenged by prosecutors because he indicated he would impose the death penalty only if the defendant were in the position to kill again. Jurors' options were limited: they could sentence Brown to death or life in prison with no parole. Defense lawyers did not object at trial. When the issue was raised on appeal, Washington state courts and a federal judge affirmed the conviction. But the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the juror should not have been excused because he said he would consider the death penalty in an appropriate case. Justice Anthony Kennedy, the deciding vote in every death case the court has heard this session, said the appeals court should have deferred to the trial judge. "But where, as here, there is lengthy questioning of a prospective juror and the trial court has supervised a diligent and thoughtful (examination), the trial court has broad discretion," Kennedy wrote for the majority. Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Samuel Alito, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas joined the opinion. Justice John Paul Stevens, reading a strong dissent from the bench, said the court wiped away earlier decisions that allow death penalty opponents to sit on juries in capital cases, provided they demonstrate they can set aside their beliefs and follow the law. Stevens noted that in this case, "the juror struck for cause was not even an opponent of the death penalty." Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and David Souter also dissented. Brown carjacked Holly Washa, 21, and drove her to a hotel near Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. He held her at the motel before leaving her to die. Brown turned himself in after he raped and tried to kill another woman in Palm Springs, Calif. He admitted to both crimes. In 1993, a King County jury convicted him and sentenced him to die. A three-judge appeals court panel set aside the death sentence in December 2005. The case is Uttecht v. Brown, 06-413. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7830587.html E.coli fear spurs ground beef recall at Albertsons & Regional E.coli fear spurs ground beef recall at Albertsons Jun 4, 2007 at 2:09 PM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 2:10 PM PDT EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. (AP) - Supervalu Inc. said on Monday it was recalling some ground beef sold in its Albertsons and Save-A-Lot stores because it is believed to be contaminated with E. coli. Most of the products were sold under the Moran's label at Albertsons stores in California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming and Save-A-Lot stores in Arizona, California, and Nevada. The recalled products had sell-by dates from April 20 through May 7. It included Moran's brand meat sold in 1- to 5-pound varieties under UPC numbers 34779 60501, 34779 60000, 34779 96000, 34779 91000, 34779 60010, 34779 96194, 34779 21117. Also recalled was Albertsons 90/10 Sirloin fresh hamburger patties. Customers can return recalled products to the store for a full refund or exchange. Customers with questions about the recall can call United Food Group's hotline at 1-800-325-4164. The Supervalu recall stems from a recall announced Sunday by meat supplier United Food Group LLC of 75,000 pounds of contaminated ground beef. In addition to the Supervalu stores, the United Food recall included meat sold at Grocery Outlet, Fry's, Save-Mart, Smart and Final, Smith's, and Stater Bros. stores. Symptoms of E. coli include stomach cramps that may be severe and diarrhea that may turn bloody within one to three days. E. coli sometimes can lead to complications including kidney failure. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7822612.html Gates Foundation launches global health institute & Regional Gates Foundation launches global health institute Students are seen on the campus of the University of Washington in this file photo. Jun 4, 2007 at 7:30 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 11:55 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is giving $105 million to the University of Washington to open a new research center to assess the performance of global health programs. The donation announced Monday is the largest private gift the university has ever received, university President Mark A. Emmert said. The university - which receives more government money for scientific research than any other public university - is also putting $20 million toward the new institute. "There has been a huge increase in resources for global health in recent years, and it's essential to evaluate the impact of these investments. With high-quality data, we can ensure resources go where they are needed most, and dramatically improve health care delivery," said Dr. Tadataka "Tachi" Yamada, president of the Gates Foundation's Global Health Program, in a statement issued before the official announcement. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation will be directed by Christopher J.L. Murray, the former director of Harvard's institute for public health. Murray was chosen to lead the Ellison Institute for World Health at Harvard until last year, until Oracle Corp. founder Larry Ellison pulled the $115 million he had promised to Harvard. The University of Washington research center will collect and analyze data on health indicators and trends, such as the availability of health care and the spread of disease. It will study the results of health programs and will make health data freely available to policy-makers, researchers and the public. The university said it expects the institute to hire more than 100 faculty and staff and set up a collaboration network among research centers. "We hope to set the gold standard for scientifically rigorous evaluation in health," said Murray, a health economist. The institute will be led by a board of health experts chaired by Dr. Julio Frenk, a senior fellow at the Gates Foundation and Mexico's former minister of health. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7827977.html Body found in burned vehicle in Elma & Regional Body found in burned vehicle in Elma Jun 4, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT ELMA, Wash. -- Sheriff's deputies are investigation the death of a person who was found in a burned car Monday morning. Officials said the car was found near Ford Loop Road just after 8 a.m. Video from AIR 4 showed investigators searching the charred shell of a minivan on the side of a two-lane road. No information about the victim was available, and detectives said it would likely require and autopsy to determine how the person died. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local & Regional Top Local & Regional Story E.coli fear spurs ground beef recall at Albertsons Supervalu Inc. said on Monday it was recalling some ground beef sold in its Albertsons and Save-A-Lot stores because it is believed to be contaminated with E. coli. More Local & Regional Stories Fort Lewis Stryker brigade soldier killed in Iraq A Louisiana soldier with one of Fort Lewis' two Stryker brigades in Iraq has been killed, the Department of Defense said Monday. Spc. William J. Crouch, 21, of Zachary, La., died Saturday in Al Hadid when a roadside bomb exploded near his vehicle. Body found in burned vehicle in Elma Sheriff's deputies are investigation the death of a person who was found in a burned car Monday morning. Local & Regional Headlines Young boy drowns in Skagit County lake Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder Teen shot to death at Bremerton apartment Gates Foundation launches global health institute USS Lincoln maintenance nears completion in Bremerton 'Some of us still feel like we're back over there' Even horses may take hit from high gas prices New trail opens while others face big repairs Art project mistaken for vandalism is vandalized 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure Alleged JFK airport plot may have Oregon link Speeding tickets soon to cost more More state teachers seeking national certification Washington among states with lowest CO2 emission output Suspect arrested in fatal hit-and-run Man expected to recover from train crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Police arrest man wanted in crash that killed toddler Fort Lewis Stryker soldier killed in Iraq Orphaned cub returned to bear country Investigators probe repeat vandalism at Centralia bird farm Thousands gather to say goodbye to Maleng Shortfall in funding prompts DSHS to cut dozens of jobs Gas, coffee and new CD fuel trip across state May deadliest month for soldiers with local ties Kenmore man killed in Bellingham hit-and-run Obama addresses sold-out Seattle rally New hospital in Issaquah approved Justice Bobbe Bridge to retire at year's end Videotape leads to murder conviction in Seattle shooting Spokane diocese emerges from Chapter 11 bankruptcy FDA warns of tainted toothpaste Gunman who shot cop in the face sentenced Man, woman dead in Kent murder-suicide 'I miss his big shoulders and seeing him in uniform' Judge grounds students arrested in sting op Supreme Court nears term's end with Seattle school integration case to resolve Service resumes after ferry rams Mukilteo dock Storm-damaged forest lands still in need of aid Sex slave trial gets under way, victims testify Trapped swimmer rescued from Skykomish River Fort Lewis-McChord highway absent from transport board road list Federal Way man found guilty in shooting death arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7822682.html Teen shot to death at Bremerton apartment & Regional Teen shot to death at Bremerton apartment Jun 4, 2007 at 7:12 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 11:32 AM PDT BREMERTON, Wash. -- Police here say a teenager was killed while playing with a gun at an apartment early Monday morning. Sgt. Kevin Crane said the 17-year-old boy was found in an apartment in the 1100 block of 12th Street at about 2:45 a.m. The victim, who has not been identified, was shot once in the side of the head. He died at the scene. Investigators said there were four or five other people in the apartment at the time of the shooting, but a it was not immediately clear who pulled the trigger. Detectives recovered a gun at the scene and are interviewing the people who were with the victim. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7815962.html USS Lincoln maintenance nears completion in Bremerton & Regional USS Lincoln maintenance nears completion in Bremerton Jun 3, 2007 at 5:40 PM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 5:40 PM PDT BREMERTON, Wash. (AP) - Several months of maintenance work on the USS Lincoln is set to wrap up this month at the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, and the aircraft carrier will then head home to Naval Station Everett. The crew of about 3,200 sailors had expected to cast off from Bremerton in mid-March, about six months after it drydocked for repairs. But about $142 million in maintenance and alterations proved more complex than expected, said the ship spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. John Filostrat. "That plan was very ambitious," Filostrat said. The work included catapult repairs and upgrades to the carrier's navigation equipment and defense systems. About a third of the work was handled by the shipyard, about a third by the crew and a third by contractors. After sea trials and carrier qualifications for about a week, the carrier will tie up in Everett but then head out to pick up its air wing in San Diego and prepare to deploy early next year. About half the crew members, many of them married, have been commuting four hours a day between the Everett-based carrier and their homes in Snohomish County. Other crew members either live on the ship or in the Bremerton area. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7814602.html Even horses may take hit from high gas prices & Regional Even horses may take hit from high gas prices Jun 3, 2007 at 2:05 PM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 2:05 PM PDT BEND, Ore. (AP) - Hay prices are expected to increase to as much as $250 per ton this summer, officials said. It will be a big jump from last year, when prices ranged from $150 per ton to $175 per ton, said Tony Aceti, owner of Aceti's Hay Depot on U.S. 97 north of Bend. Farmers who grow hay, meanwhile, are experiencing higher fuel costs that are eating away at their profits, Aceti said. "Even the twine to bale the hay costs more because it's made from a petroleum-based product," he said. Central Oregon sales for alfalfa and grass hay grew 36 percent last year from $23.9 million in 2005 to $32.4 million in 2006, according to the Oregon Agricultural Information Network, which provides state and county agricultural data. Local farmers, who are getting ready to cut their alfalfa and grass hay crops, say rising costs are making it more difficult to make a profit despite the rising demand for hay. "Fuel is driving everything," said Ken Caudell, owner of Caudell Farms in Terrebonne. "It's a major reason why the supplies are down." The state's hay supply reached its lowest point this month since 2000, according to the National Agricultural Statistics Service. The nation's hay supply, meanwhile, fell to its lowest point since 1950, the agency also reported. Many farmers in Oregon and across the nation who grew hay are switching to corn production to meet the nation's growing demand for corn-based ethanol, said Jack Getz, the officer in charge of U.S. Department of Agriculture's Livestock & Grain Market News, based in Moses Lake, Wash. The demand for hay in the Western states, however, continues to rise as hay stocks fall, Getz said. More cattle are consuming hay, especially in the dairy industry, he said. Dry weather also has contributed to a loss of pasture land in states, including California, Getz said. Nitrogen costs, which are an essential fertilizer for most of the grass hay grown in the region, rose from $254 per ton in 2004 to $344 per ton in 2006, according to the federal and state data from the National Agricultural Statistics Service. For the most part, hay growers are going to have a successful year, said Mylen Bohle, an agronomist for Oregon State University's Crook County Extension Service. "We've been short on hay the last couple years," he said. "But it might not be quite as bad for hay growers. They can do quite well with the price of hay the way it is." arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7828572.html Fort Lewis Stryker brigade soldier killed in Iraq & Regional Fort Lewis Stryker brigade soldier killed in Iraq Jun 4, 2007 at 12:42 PM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 12:42 PM PDT FORT LEWIS, Wash. (AP) - A Louisiana soldier with one of Fort Lewis' two Stryker brigades in Iraq has been killed, the Department of Defense said Monday. Spc. William J. Crouch, 21, of Zachary, La., died Saturday in Al Hadid when a roadside bomb exploded near his vehicle. Crouch was a cavalry scout with the 2nd Squadron, 1st Cavalry Regiment of the 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division at Fort Lewis, south of Tacoma. He joined the Army his senior year in high school. His desire to serve came from his father, James Crouch, a Baton Rouge policeman who died of natural causes when Crouch was 13, his mother, Kathy Rushing, said. He wanted to be "in the thick of things ... on the front lines," she said. Rushing said casualty assistance soldiers from Fort Polk told her Saturday night that her son had been killed while on patrol. Crouch's younger brother, John Crouch, a reservist with a maintenance company stationed in Iraq, would try to join his brother's body on the flight back to the U.S., Rushing said. "We're hoping he'll be able to bring his brother home," she said. The 4th Brigade has lost 10 soldiers since leaving for Iraq in April on what has since been extended to a 15-month tour in the country. On Tuesday, it plans a memorial service at Fort Lewis for Staff Sgts. David Kuehl and Kristopher Higdon, Pfc. Robert Worthington, and Cpl. Mathew LaForest. The four were among 20 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in multiple attacks last month, the deadliest for the post - as well as for troops with ties to the state - since the war began in March 2003. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7827517.html Young boy drowns in Skagit County lake & Regional Young boy drowns in Skagit County lake Jun 4, 2007 at 11:52 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 11:53 AM PDT MOUNT VERNON, Wash. -- A 4-year-old boy drowned in Clear Lake east of here Sunday evening during an outing with his family, officials said. Skagit County Chief Deputy Will Reichardt said police and firefighters were called to the lake about 8:15 p.m. and the boy's family said the child had not been seen for at least 30 minutes. Searchers found a small toy belonging to the child floating in about 4 feet of water near the dock, and firefighters soon found the boy under the water. Medics performed CPR but were unable to resuscitate the boy. He was pronounced dead at Skagit Valley Hospital. Investigators provided no other details about the drowning, and the name of the boy who died has not been released. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
