http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7454856.html 2007 at 10:46 2007 at 10:46 PM PDT TACOMA, Wash. (AP) - A Pierce County jury has acquitted a man accused of having sex with the family dog. Michael Patrick McPhail, 26, of Spanaway, was found not guilty Wednesday in Pierce County Superior Court of first-degree animal cruelty. Assistant Pierce County Prosecutor Karen Watson said last fall that McPhail was the first person charged in the county under a new state law that made bestiality a felony. "I'm glad that justice was able to see it wasn't an action of my doing," McPhail said as he left the court building. He said he believes his wife made up the story because she is seeking to end their marriage. It was Jesika McPhail who contacted police and told them she'd caught her husband engaged in sexual intercourse with their pit bull, Sara, last October. Jesika McPhail was not immediately available for comment about the verdict. The case generated outrage among animal welfare advocates across the globe, many of whom called for McPhail to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. Deputy Prosecutor Brian Leech, who tried the case, said he was disappointed. "Obviously, I thought the facts were more than sufficient to merit a conviction," Leech said. "The defense was able to introduce some evidence about strife in the marriage. I don't think that was supported, but apparently the jury gave it some weight." The new law, which took effect last June, was prompted by a case in which a Seattle man died after having sex with a horse. Before the law was enacted, Washington was among roughly a dozen states where bestiality had not been explicitly prohibited. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7448496.html Federal lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped 2007 at 2:55 2007 at 2:55 PM PDT PORTLAND, Ore. (AP) - The guardian of a disabled Clackamas High School student has filed a federal lawsuit claiming the girl was raped in a school bathroom by a student who had previously assaulted another disabled girl. The lawsuit, filed Thursday in U.S. District Court, names the North Clackamas School District, Superintendent Ron Naso, Clackamas High principal Jan Miner and teacher Angela Tucker. School district officials could not comment on the pending litigation, a spokesman said. The guardian alleges that the child, described in the suit as having "significant mental disabilities," was a student in Tucker's class when her best friend, another disabled girl, was raped by a special education student in a girls' restroom at the school in October 2004. The suit says the parents of the second girl reported the attack to school officials, who in turn "assured them and the rest of the parents" that the male student would not be allowed to be alone with any female students. They also said they would protect the boy "who did not have the capacity to understand or control his behavior," the suit said. In June 2005, the teacher sent the girl out of the "secure classroom," according to the lawsuit. No one supervised her, and, according to the suit, the male student followed her, took her into a girl's bathroom and raped her. The guardian said the child suffered physical and emotional injuries. The suit seeks up to $1 million in damages. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7445836.html 2007 at 11:16 AM PDT SEATTLE -- Right now, 1.5 percent of all cars sold in the U.S. are hybrids, and in three years that number is expected to be six times higher. At some local dealerships they even have waiting lists for customers who want to purchase a hybrid vehicle. But what makes these cars so desirable, is also creating an extra danger. The problem starts right under the hood, where most hybrids have bright orange cables carrying high-voltage electricity between the batteries and engine. Those cables can be a hot zone for firefighters responding to collisions involving hybrids. Emergency responders have an inherently hazardous job, but the proliferation of hybrid vehicles is adding to the potential dangers they face on a daily basis. The risk of electrocution is very real. said Seattle firefighter Tim Clark. "You have to understand what it is you're dealing with." The combination gas-electric vehicles have up to 500 volts running through them, and can also pose a danger to passengers in a crash. When firefighters are called to high-speed collisions, they often have to cut drivers and passengers out of the mangled vehicles. But cut in the wrong place on a hybrid car before the battery is disconnected, and it could result in a lethal shock. Clark says its just one more thing they have to think about when they're rushing to save lives. "If we don't spend a couple seconds on this, we could end up wishing we had," he said. Camano Island / Stanwood Fire Chief Darin Reid said that because of the complex electrical systems found in hybrid cars, they don't always behave the same way in a crash as traditional vehicles. "You could very well have a hybrid car moving while on fire," he said. And because the hybrid's electric motor is silent, firefighters can't always tell if it's running. Reid said that if rescuers wrongly assume that the engine is off, one wrong move could launch the hybrid into drive, with the victim still inside and firefighters on or near the vehicle. Fore the last seven years, Reid has been teaching everything he knows about hybrids to Washington firefighters. There are some standard do's and don'ts, but he reminds everyone that not all hybrids are the same. The electrical systems vary from one manufacturer to another. "No company puts the wiring in the same spot," Reid said. So, many fire departments often rely on the Internet when responding to crashes involving hybrid vehicles. It's not uncommon for firefighters to call up a manufacturer's web site so they can double-check the car's emergency response guidelines. Matt Stroud, a safety instructor with Toyota, spends much of his time training firefighters on how to safely deal with a Prius at the scene of a crash. Firefighters will often take field trips to area dealerships to practice disconnecting the car's electrical system. "All hybrids, including the Prius, have a built-in safety system that's supposed to turn the car off if it's in a crash," Stroud said. But the hybrid isn't fully safe until the battery is disconnected. "You've still got a boost factor of 500 volts," Stroud said, referring to a situation when the engine has shut down, but the batteries are still sending electricity through the cables. In March, a hybrid vehicle crashed into a convenience store in Tacoma and caught fire. Firefighters extinguished the flames, but because they were worried the car was still energized, they called a local dealership to walk them through disconnecting the battery. Safety is so important to Stroud, he's writing an emergency pocket guide for firefighters -- the first of its kind. Seattle firefighters will be the first in the nation to get the guide. Reid says the risks are manageable, but that it's crucial to educate rescuers. "When seconds do count, it's a lot less scary if firefighters know what they're up against." Tim Clark doesn't think it will be much of a problem for area firefighters. "It's a challenge," he said, "but we like that kind of thing." Hybrid-Electric Vehicles - Frequently Asked Questions Approaching Alternate-Fueled Vehicles - Information for Emergency Personnel University of Extrication - Inside Hybrid Cars killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7462552.html AM PM PDT TUKWILA, Wash. -- A stubborn fire at a tire and for hours after it was reported Friday morning. The blaze in the 3400 block of south 150th street was called in by neighbors just after 8 a.m. The business was closed at the time of the fire, and firefighters don't believe anyone was inside. Thick black smoke billowed out of the building and across nearby Highway 99 into the afternoon, and the plume could be seen for miles. The cause of the fire is under investigation. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7452601.html photo taken in April shows the man who claimed to be an Army soldier (Snoqualmie Valley Record). 2007 at 7:17 PM PDT NORTH BEND, Wash. - Some people in North Bend who opened their hearts and wallets to a needy soldier now say they've been duped by an imposter soldier. Residents say the man introduced himself as Lt. Don Daily, and said he served two tours in Iraq. He also said his local family left him with no money and no place to live. North Bend residents say Daily wore fatigues, kept his hair cropped and had a sob story that had almost everybody fooled. He stayed in a room at the North Bend motel, where he got to know the housekeeper. That woman, Jeanine Horsfall, says the story he told her broke her heart. "He just got back from Iraq and he is going to head out soon again," she said. "And his girlfriend took all the money he sent and took off with the kids." Horsfall felt so sorry for the soldier that she gave him what takes her two weeks to earn cleaning rooms. "I felt so bad that I went to the bank, got $500 and said, 'here, this is for you, because you're a soldier,'" she said. Daily also told his story at the Sure Shot Pub, where many who felt sorry for him bought him drinks and food. "He ate like a king. Unfortunately he didn't deserve it," said Lee Stark, the manager of the North Bend motel. "It was a kick in the pants." Stark asked the church to put Daily up in his motel. And a reporter from the local paper, the Snoqualmie Valley Record, even set out to write a human interest story about him. "He answered with 'yes, sir' and 'no,sir.' That kind of thing," said the editor of the paper, Leif Nesheim. The newspaper contacted the military to check out Daily's story. "Fort Bragg, bottom line, said they hadn't heard of him and they had no clue who he was," Nesheim said. Horsfall confronted Daily, who left the motel in the middle of the night. No one has seen him since. But Melissa Morrison, one of the people who helped Daily, has received a series of text messages from him. Daily's messages state he's on his way back to Iraq and that he probably would not come back alive. "Other soldiers have got killed by friendly fire after they have talked badly about the military to the press," the message read. A day and a half later, Morrison received one last text from the same phone number. This time, the sender identified himself as a private with tragic news about Lt. Daily. "He was shot and killed three hours ago by friendly fire," the message read. Morrison waited a few hours after receiving the text message, then used a phone card and called Daily's phone number back. And the man who had supposedly been killed by friendly fire answered the phone. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7455516.html Cops accused of bad behavior during strip club raids accused of bad behavior during strip club raids 2007 at 11:04 2007 at 11:12 PM PDT By KOMO Staff & Seattle P-I SEATTLE - Police officers are accused of bad behavior while working undercover in local strip clubs. Police reports obtained by the Seattle P-I suggest some officers may have gone too far to stop illegal dancing by mixing business with pleasure. Eight dancers were arrested at the Déjà Vu in March for illegal dancing. More than a dozen others were arrested at Rick's in Lake City last December. During those raids, officers tried to find out whether the dancers would solicit prostitution. And those extra steps they took to find out is raising a few eyebrows. In Seattle, exotic dancers can strip nearly naked while on stage, but not off stage. It's also illegal for dancers to touch customers. But according to the police reports from the two raids, which was obtained by the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, officers did more than just watch. "I grabbed her buttocks with both hands and kept them there throughout the dance," wrote one officer. "I asked her if I could touch it," wrote another officer. "I undid my belt," wrote another. All these actions reportedly took place after the dancers allegedly broke the law by exposing their genitals or touching the officers. KOMO 4 News was declined an on-camera interview with the Seattle Police Department. But the supervisor of the department's vice unit did talk to a Seattle P-I reporter. "if you just sit there with your hands tucked at your sides, they're going to know you're a cop," Eric Sano with the Seattle Police Department Vice Unit told the newspaper. One officer paid $100 for four lap dances from the same dancer even though she allegedly broke the law after the first one. City Councilman Nick Licata chairs the Public Safety Commmittee, which oversees the police department. Licata says the reports raise questions. "Is this how the police department is spending public money?" he said. "Our officers can be much better serving the public by being visible the neighborhoods than being in some dark club some place to see if they can arrest an exotic dancer." Deja Vu's attorney Jack Burns says the officers went too far. "They are overstepping the boundary.They had 12 to 25 officers out there to try and catch eight girls," he said. Among the 22 dancers arrested during the raids, three were arrested on suspicion of prostitution. More details of the investigation will be released in Friday's edition of the killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7453516.html Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane preschool children found home alone in Spokane 2007 at 8:25 2007 at 8:58 PM PDT SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) - A preschooler who called 911 on Thursday to report "mom and daddy go bye bye" helped authorities find three young children left unattended in a home with drug paraphernalia. A 34-year-old woman, the mother of two of the children, was arrested when she showed up later after a gambling trip, Spokane police spokesman Officer Bill Hager said. The children - ages 4, 3 and 2 - were taken into custody by state Child Protective Services workers after spending as long as four hours by themselves. Jennifer K. Rigutto told authorities she had left the two boys and a girl with her ex-husband about 5 a.m. to go gambling with her boyfriend, police said. "I would never, never leave my children alone," Rigutto said. The case came to light when child protection workers called the house for a welfare check, and one of the children answered the phone, Police Lt. Darrell Toombs said. As CPS workers headed to the home, one of the children called 911 and said, "mom and daddy go bye-bye," Hager said. Rigutto was being investigated for child endangerment and possession of a controlled substance with intent to deliver, Hager said. William "Shad" Smith, 35, identified as the woman's ex-husband, was arrested Thursday evening and booked into the Spokane County Jail for investigation of three counts of second-degree child abandonment, Hager said. Police also sought the boyfriend, the father of one of the children, Hager said. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local Investigators: Flawed design caused crane collapse The state Department of Labor and Industries said the foundation of the Bellevue crane was designed to withstand only about one-fourth of the pressures that the 210-foot tower crane actually required. More Gregoire signs Sirita's Law The law requires background checks on parents accused of abuse or neglect before a foster child is returned to their home. It is named after a girl who was beaten to death two years ago in Lake Stevens by her stepmother. Ft. Lewis special forces soldier killed in Iraq Sgt. Maj. Bradley Conner was killed Wednesday when his convoy was ambushed and a bomb exploded under his vehicle. He was on his fourth tour in Iraq. Passenger killed accused of bad behavior during strip club raids Three dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane Candy-flavored meth targets young users lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped UW president receives threatening e-mail 300 more from Fort Lewis heading to Iraq Suspected human remains found in fire-charred car in Kitsap County $50,000 bail for teacher accused of molestation Dioxin levels lead to higher costs for dredging Port of Olympia Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington More commuters riding instead of driving welcome top teacher back to school Gonzales 'not aware' of DOJ using Wales killing to explain firing Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Woman who posed as teenage boy pleads guilty Feds find explosives at home near Woodland After dealing with WASL, Gregoire signs other education bills Centralia men admit painting swastikas in Pullman Oregon governor signs gay rights bills into law Lawsuit: Nursing home killed elderly woman with morphine Paid family leave becomes law, financing uncertain Church members shocked, hurt by pastor's child rape charge McKay: White House likely behind firings Mom who triggered Amber Alert back in Washington state Rising gas prices stretching pizzeria's dough thin Six killed Fort Lewis soldiers identified Churches to offer illegal immigrants sanctuary Music teacher arrested at elementary school Sammamish school fighting norovirus outbreak 'I just knew I was dead' Rift forms between teachers and state superintendent Court hears challenge to school drug testing Gas prices, frustration continue to rise Gregoire delays WASL math and science grad requirement Threat forces evacuation of ferry Man suspected in Pierce County killings headed back to Wash. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7461327.html Three dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho AM AM PDT CALDER, Idaho (AP) - Three people were found dead and a woman survived a head wound after being shot at a remote house outside this northern Idaho hamlet, authorities said Friday. Shoshone County sheriff's deputies gave few details, but neighbors said a distraught man had wounded his estranged wife, killed her parents and committed suicide Thursday evening. Sheriff's Sgt. Derek Dofelmire identified one of the victims as Ricky Turner. He would not identify the other two, an elderly man and woman. Dofelmire said the survivor was Rose Turner, who he said was "very lucky" to be alive. She was flown to Sacred Heart Medical Center in Spokane, Wash., where "she has been able to provide information to our investigators," he said. More than one gun was recovered at the scene, he said. Neighbors told The Spokesman-Review of Spokane that Ricky Turner was Rose Turner's estranged husband and that he committed suicide after shooting her and her parents. The Turners had three children and her parents lived with her at the house, Julie Codoni told the newspaper. She said Ricky Turner was despondent over their divorce, which was to take effect Thursday. When Codoni talked to him Wednesday, "he was in really bad shape. He was hurting," she said. "He loved her. She was his life." killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7452876.html Candy-flavored meth targets young users meth targets young users 2007 at 7:33 2007 at 7:37 PM PDT In their quest to lure new, younger clientele, drug dealers are mixing their wares with over-the-counter pain remedies and other familiar products - even candy - and peddling them under non-threatening names. A new drug temptation has turned up in Grays Harbor County. It tastes like candy - often times like strawberry-flavored candy - but it's flavored methamphetamine. On the street, users call it "Strawberry Quick". Users and investigators say some kids as young as 11 and 12 already use meth. Now with a new evolution in meth production - meth with the coloring, look and flavor of sugar candy - they worry even younger kids will be lured by the drug. Tiffany Leal took her first hit of meth at the age of 15. A mug shot shows her battered by the drug, weighing just 98 pounds. She's clean now, speaking at a meth summit to students, some of whom cried when they heard her story. "I don't want people to cry but now I know it's making a difference," Leal said. "They're feeling what it's caused to somebody. They're seeing the truth, they're seeing the hurt." She never contended, though, with Strawberry Quick. Grays Harbor County sheriff's deputies say locals have only months before they contend with it. "It's only a matter of time," said Sgt. Ross McDowell. "It'll be here, I imagine probably by this summer." The doors of the youth meth action summit open into rural Lewis County, fertile ground for meth addiction. "Meth is major problem in Lewis County. It's connected to 80 percent of our major crime," McDowell said. "I've met 11 year olds who've done meth and still do it," Leal said. "It's just crazy. I never knew it until I saw them doing it." And there's the potential for more crime by even younger addicts hooked on Strawberry Quick. Many predict the new form will tempt younger kids and vulnerable people. "I think a lot more people will start using," Leal said. Police say the best thing to do is to talk to your kids. They say meth flavored like strawberry, blueberry or chocolate candy is still meth - addictive and potentially deadly. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7451451.html Relatives grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq Staff Sgt. Vincenzo Romeo had planned to marry his fiancee, Amanda Anderson of Tacoma, when he returned from Iraq later this year. 2007 at 5:39 2007 at 5:39 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - None of the six soldiers killed in one of the deadliest attacks on a Fort Lewis unit in more than two years lived to see his 30th birthday. They were members of the Army's 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, and all had entered active-duty service within the past six years. Most were serving their first tour when a homemade bomb exploded near their vehicle Sunday in Baqubah, Iraq. As the post south of Tacoma plans a memorial service Tuesday, relatives of the soldiers recalled the fallen sons, brothers and fiances they had hoped to see come home in October. At 28, Joel Lewis was the oldest of the six soldiers and serving his first tour in Iraq. Sgt. Lewis stood 6-foot-6 and attracted friends easily with his broad smile and infectious laughter, said his mother, Gale Poindexter. "He exuded a warmth. He wasn't intimidating," Poindexter said in a telephone call Thursday from her home in Tulsa, Okla. Lewis, of Sandia Park, N.M., was charismatic and loved the outdoors, taking enjoyment in hockey, skydiving and snowboarding. His mother said he joined the Army in June 2001, likely for adventure and travel. "He just would never be a 9-to-5, desk kind of guy," said Poindexter, who plans for her son to be buried at Tahoma National Cemetery in Kent. Staff Sgt. Vincenzo Romeo had planned to marry his fiancee, Amanda Anderson of Tacoma, when he returned from Iraq later this year. "Enzo," as loved ones called him, was a "kind and courageous person who brought joy and laughter to all around him," his family said in a statement. Romeo, 23, of Lodi, N.J., was born in Calabria, Italy, and came to the United States with his family in 1986. He joined the military in March 2003 and by November of that year had deployed with the 3rd Brigade for his first mission to Iraq. This latest tour was Romeo's second to Iraq, one that was extended by three months in an effort to bolster troop levels in the country. "Enzo, our hearts are broken and our lives will never be the same without you," relatives said. "We love and miss you always." Jason Harkins also was serving for a second time in Iraq. The 25-year-old sergeant from Clarksville, Ga., first joined the Army Reserves in 1999, then volunteered for active duty in December 2002. A true "country boy," Harkins enjoyed returning to his hometown to fish and spend time with his family, wife Emily said in a statement. "He found the best in every situation and could always make those around him laugh," Emily said. "He was also a very loving man, who cared deeply for people and looked forward to one day being a father." Cpl. Matthew Alexander, 21, enlisted in the Army after graduating from Gretna High School in Nebraska in 2004. He reported to Fort Lewis in December 2004 and eventually was assigned to the 3rd Brigade's 5th Battalion, 20th Infantry Division. This was the first deployment for Alexander, whose wife, Kara, said he "was the most gracious man I knew." "He made it his life's work to take care of those he loved," she said in a statement. The young soldier "fought for a cause he believed in, and on May 6, 2007, died for a country he loved," she said. "Matt truly was our angel on Earth. He will be greatly missed." Anthony Bradshaw's older brother was already in the military when he decided to enlist in the Army in August 2004. The 21-year-old reported for training at Fort Benning, Ga., then was assigned to Fort Lewis. Less than two years later, in June 2006, Cpl. Bradshaw left for his first deployment. His cousin, Andrea Shea, told KTSM Television in El Paso, Texas, that it was hard learning of the young man's death. "You don't believe it. You just want to know what happened," Shea said. Cpl. Michael Pursel was 19 when he died, the youngest of the six soldiers killed when the homemade bomb exploded near their vehicle. Pursel moved to Lacey in 1998, when his father was reassigned from Germany to Fort Lewis. His mother, Terry Dutcher, is a captain in the Air Force Reserve who lives in Hooper, Utah. Dutcher was not immediately available for comment Thursday. A woman answering Dutcher's cell phone and who identified herself as Pursel's grandmother said joining the military was his dream. "Michael's wanted to join the Army since he was 2 years old," she said. "As soon as he got out of high school he joined." Pursel enlisted in April of last year. He'd been in Iraq just over a month when he died. "Michael was doing what he always wanted to do," Dutcher told The Olympian newspaper of Olympia. "In light of how it turned out, I know Michael was happy. I just take peace in that right now." killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7463787.html Passenger killed killed AM PM PDT TUKWILA, Wash -- One person was killed Friday morning when a loose tire smashed into the van they were riding in on Interstate 5. Trooper Jeff Merrill said the tire came off of a northbound semi, bounced over the median and struck the windshield of a southbound van. A 31-year-old Bothell man riding in the passenger seat of the van was killed instantly. The driver was very shaken but was not seriously injured. Merrill said the wheels weighed several hundred pounds. "There were two tires with some metal axel pieces attached to it." "Given the size and the velocity and the weight of that object, it has the ability to do tremendous damage, as it did here today," he said. The inside lanes of both northbound and southbound I-5 are closed near the Duwamish Curve just south of Seattle. Merrill said troopers stopped the semi one exit north of the accident scene, and the driver was cooperating with investigators. He was not injured. Video from AIR 4 showed a large tire missing from an empty trailer being towed by the semi truck. The truck is used to haul large garbage containers, but it was just pulling the trailer at the time of the accident. Merrill said it is very rare for a set of wheels to come off a large truck. "It doesn't happen a lot, but when it does it's very damaging." Investigators were trying to determine what caused the wheels to come loose. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7467477.html Ft. Lewis special forces soldier killed in Iraq Lewis special forces soldier killed in Iraq PM PDT FORT LEWIS, Wash. -- An Army Special Forces soldier based at Fort Lewis was killed in an ambush in Iraq, the U.S. Army Special Operations Command said on Friday. Sgt. Maj. Bradley D. Conner was killed when his an explosive detonated beneath the vehicle he was riding in near Al-Hillah. Conner, 41, was raised in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho and was on his fourth tour in Iraq. He joined the Army in 1987 and was assigned to the 1st Battalion, 1st Special Forces Group based at Fort Lewis. Conner's military service awards include three Bronze Star medals, a Purple Heart, and three Meritorious Service medals. He is survived by his wife, son, and two daughters. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7468872.html Investigators: Flawed design caused crane collapse Flawed design caused crane collapse PM PDT BELLEVUE, Wash. -- The state Department of Labor and Industries says a six-month investigation into a fatal tower-crane collapse in Bellevue on November 16th has determined a flawed engineering design was the cause of the accident. L&I said Friday that the engineered foundation was designed to withstand only about one-fourth of the pressures that the 210-foot tower crane actually required. The foundation was by Magnusson Klemencic Associates of Seattle. Investigators said the crane operator was well experienced and was operating the crane properly. Steve Cant, assistant director for L&I's Division of Occupational Safety and Health, said the inadequate design of the tower-crane base clearly led to the collapse of the structure. The problem was compounded by the failure of the general contractor to maintain and inspect the crane base in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications. The tower-crane accident killed 31-year-old Matthew Ammon, a Microsoft lawyer who was in his fourth-floor condominium when the crane collapsed onto his building. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7467917.html Gregoire signs Sirita's Law signs Sirita's Law Sirita Sotelo is seen in this undated family photo. PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Governor Gregoire on Friday signed the bill known as Sirita's Law. It requires background checks or a court hearing on parents accused of abuse or neglect before a foster child is returned to their home. The law is named for 4-year-old Sirita Sotelo, who was beaten to death two years ago in Lake Stevens by her stepmother. The girl had been in foster care before her father was awarded custody. Gregoire signed several other laws relating to foster children. One requires the Department of Social and Health Services to provide courts with information about injuries, drugs or domestic violence before a child is returned to a parent. It's called the Rafael Gomez Act, after a two-year-old Ephrata boy who was killed in after being returned to his mother from foster care. The mother was convicted of homicide by abuse. killed investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7465337.html Local man at center of search for millions of dollars man at center of search for millions of dollars PM PDT At first, Darrel Kempf's disappearance looked like a mob hit, with millions of dollars missing. Now investigators know the truth -- it was an elaborate scam fueled by greed and deception. But there's still a mystery: what caused Darrel Kempf to fake his own death? And what happened to all those millions? Both just vanished, leaving behind a trail littered with hundreds of local victims. "I was in shock." "He obviously did this with malice in his heart." Those the words of some of the many victims. When Darrel Kempf disappeared he left chaos, confusion and desperation behind. "How could somebody do this to their family?" asks Jessica Kempf, Darrel niece. She also lost thousands of dollars in dealings with her uncle. For 11 years, Kempf ran a prosperous, law-abiding car dealership - Triad Marketing - from a lot in Pierce County. Kempf relied on his low-key charm for referrals and repeat customers. "I was like 'this is a good guy,' " is what one customer originally thought. But in late January, Darrel Kempf's elaborate house of cards came tumbling down. "He intended to defraud people," said Bill Wright, head of dealer enforcement with the state Department of Licensing. "He intended to get as much money as he possibly could and obviously disappear with it." Kempf's minivan ran off the road on a remote stretch of road in rural Pacific County. Investigators found no blood, no body, and no sign of Kempf. Tow operator Maynard Barnum found a belt tied to the steering wheel when he brought the vehicle back up to the road. He figured out what investigators now freely admit. "When this baby went off into the rocks, there was no one in it," he said. Kempf just disappeared. And he took millions of dollars with him. This is how investigators say the scam worked: First, someone brings their car to Triad to sell on consignment. Kempf would use that car's title as collateral to get a loan from a finance company. Then he'd sell the car to someone else, pocket all the cash and disappear. That left the original owner, the finance company and the car buyer without their money and all fighting over the same car. It happened dozens of times, and hundreds of victims are paying the price. Including his own family. "Just over $70,000," Jessica Kempf said while outlining the amount of money they have at risk because of Darrel. Jessica and Gabe Kempf gave their uncle Darrel a custom truck as a trade-in on a Honda Pilot. They also wanted him to sell their older Honda Accord. Instead, Jessica Kempf says, Darrel forged their signatures. "This is the forged title to the Accord," she said while holding up the piece of paper with signatures that don't look anything like their own. Kempf took out loans on both their Hondas. And the truck, like Darrel, vanished. Their insurance company reported it stolen. "The worst thing you can imagine," said Jessica. "It's your worst nightmare." Unbeknownst to Jessica and Gabe, Kevin Sakai of Gig Harbor paid Darrel $32,000 for their truck. "It seemed like a totally legit thing," he said. You can imagine Sakai's surprise when a Sheriff's deputy pulled him over, guns drawn. "Next thing I hear, 'let me see your hands!'" The deputy made Sakai kneel on the ground with his hands on his head and wanted to know why he was driving a stolen truck. "I had the adrenaline shakes," Sakai said. "I was just like, couldn't believe it was going on." Even Kempf's own parents are victims. One of those finance companies repossessed their Subaru wagon they'd purchased through Darrel. "As the days go by I get more angry about it," says Sakai, "just thinking about this guy and how he just screwed everybody." The Department of Licensing is trying to negotiate solutions between dozens of victims who all "own" the same car. "We've got two harmed people," says Wright. "The difficult thing is what can we do for them? We can't make anyone whole." So where is Darrel Kempf? Until the scam unravelled he lived a seemingly blameless existence. "Darrel had no history of anything up until this point," said National Insurance Crime Bureau Agent Dale Zlock. Zlock began investigating and helping local law enforcement when complaints began rolling in. Hidden in all the mess, there is one tiny clue as to Kempf's motive. Investigators discovered that he took out a loan for breast enhancement surgery for a woman who also used to help Kempf with his car business. Investigators can't find her either. "I wish I knew where he was," says Wright, "but I don't think anybody knows where he is." "From what we understand," adds Agent Zlock, "he does have a Bolivian passport and is quite fluent in Spanish." It turns out Kempf's parents were missionaries in Bolivia. He was born and went to school and grew up there. Investigators think he's probably fled the country, and they've alerted Interpol. But in spite of his connections in South America, Kempf still has ties here, including a granddaughter. "His family is here, his family is in this country, it's in this state. He will probably come back," said Zlock, who has faith that eventually they will catch him. "He won't stay gone forever." Detectives from Pierce County and the National Insurance Crime Bureau met Friday with prosecutors. They tell KOMO 4 Problem Solvers they hope to file forgery charges against Kempf soon. There could be hundreds of people out there who may not yet realize they are victims of Kempf's scam. The Department of Licensing says the victims may not find out until they try to renew their license tabs and suddenly realize they're not the registered owners of the vehicles. If you purchased a vehicle from Triad Motors and Darrel Kempf, check with the state now, rather than waiting. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7469897.html A day's work can save your home from a raging wildfire day's work can save your home from a raging wildfire PM PDT lames can race through a forest as fast as you can run, and with more and more people building homes in wildfire areas, the danger is real. On Friday in the Valley High neighborhood near Blewett Pass, the Department of Natural Resources taught homeowners how to take the fuel away from their doorstep. A raging wildfire could consume a house in minutes. That's why it's so important to clean up underbrush and simply get it out of the way. But getting homeowners to do it before the fire season starts is tough. "Right now everything is green and they aren't really into it. Or it's a recreational piece of property and they come over here to play," said Matt Eberlein of the Department of Natural Resources. Eberlein has seen just how fast a fire can move. "It could be from the top of this mountain down here in a half an hour easily," said Eberlein. Kimiko Nalle and her family have done the work. "We have...a lot of the trees and the forest behind the house and since we've been here we've been threatened by fire a few times," said Nalle. She's worried about all the new construction around her, a lot of which will become vacation homes for people living in Seattle. Firefighters advise clearing brush at least 30 feet around your home. And if you live on a hill, a 100-foot buffer is best. Also clean debris off your roof before it's too late. "Georgia, Florida, California - things are going on. It's going to happen here," said Eberlein. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7471782.html Imposter soldier also a level-three sex offender soldier also a level-three sex offender This photo taken in April shows the man who claimed to be an Army soldier (Snoqualmie Valley Record). PM PDT KITSAP COUNTY -- The man who posed as a soldier and spun a sad story to win the hearts and generosity of North Bend residents is also a level-three sex offender. The man who called himself Lt. Don Daily is actually Donald Burchett. And, after running out of luck in North Bend, he travelled to Bremerton with his military uniform and a different sob story. At least three churches in Bremerton said they received visits from a man dressed in fatigues and armed with a heartbreaking story. The man told church members the unform had actually belonged to his brother, who had been killed in Iraq. The man wanted money for food and a motel room to last him until he attends a relative's funeral in California, and local paid for his rooms at a nearby hotel. But Nancy Carver says she just didn't buy the man's story. "And I thought, 'this just doesn't feel right,"' she said. Carver and other employees of Silverdale Baptist Church followed their hunches that the Burchett's story just didn't add up. They ran a criminal check and couldn't believe what they found. "And we were just absolutely hoverrified to see the huge number of arrests he had," said Elissa Torgeson, a church employee. 33-year-old Burchett has eight felonies on record, including forgery, arson and burglary. Carver checked the sex offenders' list. She says she was shocked to find out Burchett is a level-three sex offender who had spent five years in prison and had just gotten out last spring. His crime involved a six-year-old girl and a ten-year-old boy. "Oh, my lord," she said. Carver called the sheriff and deputies arrested Burchett at his hotel room for failing to register as a sex offender. "Level-three sex offenders have a high propensity to commit crimes again against individuals, and his crimes were against children. And therefore I consider him a danger to the community," said Kitsap County Sheriff Steve Boyer. Burchett never received treatment for his sex crime. A warrant was issued for his arrest for failing to check in with his parole officer. Burchett is being held on $50,000 bail. The county prosecutor is considering fraud charges. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local Local man at center of search for millions of dollars At first, Darrel Kempf's disappearance looked like a mob hit. Now investigators know that it was an elaborate scam fueled by greed and deception. But no one knows what happened to the millions he stole. He vanished with the money, leaving behind hundreds of local victims. More Newspaper's front page picture sparks controversy The picture on the front page of the Seattle Weekly is a real head-turner, and that's exactly what the paper wants. The front page features a drawing of a disgruntled student wearing a shirt with the words "f--- school". The "f" word is not censored. Son who faked retardation sentenced to prison A Vancouver, Washington, man has been sentenced to 13 months in prison for pretending to be mentally regarded in order to claim disability benefits. WSU professor facing sexual harassment trial resigns Governor signs bill that aims to make truck driving safer Imposter soldier also a level-three sex offender Gregoire OKs union dues measure Man tries to rescue stuck dog, gets stuck himself A day's work can save your home from a raging wildfire Cops accused of bad behavior during strip club raids Three dead in apparent murder-suicide in north Idaho Cell phone bill, text message ban would do anything for him' Investigators: Flawed design caused crane collapse in Bellevue Governor Gregoire signs Sirita's Law Three more Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq Man killed grieve the loss of 6 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in Iraq Three preschool children found home alone in Spokane Candy-flavored meth targets young users lawsuit alleges disabled girl was raped UW president receives threatening e-mail 300 more from Fort Lewis heading to Iraq Suspected human remains found in fire-charred car in Kitsap County $50,000 bail for teacher accused of molestation Dioxin levels lead to higher costs for dredging Port of Olympia Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Petrified forest unearthed in Central Washington More commuters riding instead of driving welcome top teacher back to school Gonzales 'not aware' of DOJ using Wales killing to explain firing Conviction of man tricked into giving his DNA upheld Woman who posed as teenage boy pleads guilty Feds find explosives at home near Woodland After dealing with WASL, Gregoire signs other education bills Centralia men admit painting swastikas in Pullman Oregon governor signs gay rights bills into law Lawsuit: Nursing home killed elderly woman with morphine Paid family leave becomes law, financing uncertain Church members shocked, hurt by pastor's child rape charge McKay: White House likely behind firings Mom who triggered Amber Alert back in Washington state Rising gas prices stretching pizzeria's dough thin killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7471962.html Governor signs bill that aims to make truck driving safer signs bill that aims to make truck driving safer PM PDT Making truck driving safer is the goal of a bill just signed into law. Two women widowed by a logging truck accident are celebrating a bittersweet victory today. No matter were you go in the northwest you're sharing the road with logging trucks and other big rigs. Now thanks to two grieving women your drive is going to be safer. Tony Qamar and Dan Johnson were best of friends. The volcanic scientists worked together and they died together. A logging truck driver lost his load. The logs spilled onto Highway 101. The geologists who managed to survive the wrath of Mother Nature with their jobs didn't survive this crash. "We still feel like that was yesterday," said Qamar's widow Kathleen Ellsbury. "Getting that call from state patrol. Describing the accident is hard is still pretty vivid." But she and Johnson's widow Eileen Llona turned their anguish in action. They lobbied the Legislature for tougher truck safety laws. "It was just such an outrage to me that he died because of carelessness," Ellsbury told a news conference last session. Their persistence paid off as the Legislature passed the bill and the governor signed it into law giving the state patrol more authority to go after truck companies to keep them safe. The governor realizes it took a great deal of emotional strength to continue to wage this fight. "And to them, we owe a great deal of gratitude," Gov. Gregoire said. "Out of their great terrible loss, they are trying to make sure none of the rest of us suffer the consequences they have suffered and their families have suffered." "I believe if this had been in place perhaps my husband would still be alive," Llona said. The two never planned they'd be going down this path. But they say on their husbands' behalf they need to do all they can to prevent this from happening again. The two aren't done. Next session they be back to urge tighter controls of the drivers of those trucks. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7470902.html Gregoire OKs union dues measure OKs union dues measure PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Gov. Chris Gregoire on Friday signed legislation allowing labor unions to spend nonmembers' bargaining fees on political causes without first getting their permission. The new law cleared the Legislature almost exclusively with Democratic votes last month, with critics calling it a clear labor-backed attempt to circumvent a pending ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court in a case involving the Washington Education Association. Gregoire, when she was still attorney general, initiated the case that is moving through the high court. Rep. Joe McDermott, D-Seattle, and other sponsors insisted the bill wasn't related to the litigation and simply clarifies accounting rules. State law regulates how unions can spend fees paid by workers who don't join the bargaining group. The nonmembers can be charged "agency fees" by the union to help finance bargaining that affects them, but they can't be forced to pay for the union's political activities. Nonmembers represented by the WEA can ask for a partial refund of part of their fees. The bill signed by the governor deals with commingling of funds. It says that when labor organizations make political campaign contributions, they aren't considered to be using agency shop fees when the union treasury has enough money to cover the contributions from other revenue sources. "This change in law provides clarity and should prevent future questions over interpretations of the proper use of agency shop fees," Gregoire said. She said it's a simple and well-accepted accounting principle and "in no way changes the prohibition against agency shop fees being spent for political purposes without affirmative authorization from individual agency fee payers." Debra Carnes of the WEA hailed the new law. "We think it's a good piece of legislation because it provides clarification that we haven't been able to get before now," she said. "We believe that now our members can move forward together to collectively speak out on issues that affect the profession." Sen. Jeanne Kohl-Welles, D-Seattle, said during Senate debate that nonunion members have always had, and will still maintain, the right to object and get a rebate. But opponents said that unless a nonmember specifically asks for a refund, that person won't know whether his fees are being used for political purposes he doesn't support. Initiative 134, a campaign-finance measure approved by voters in 1992, required unions to secure permission from each nonmember before spending any portion of the fees on politics. But that provision was overturned by the state Supreme Court. Some teachers and the state appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court. During a memo to the Legislature this year, the attorney general's office said the bill could expose the state to further litigation by adopting a "constitutionally forbidden" accounting procedure. The case stemmed from a complaint filed by the Evergreen Freedom Foundation, an Olympia-based conservative think tank. The foundation and the WEA have sparred for years about nonmember fees. The group complained about the new law and about Gregoire's decision to leave in place an emergency clause that made it take effect immediately, rather than allow a possible referendum campaign in the next 90 days. "Today, Gov. Gregoire has signed a bill that ignores the First Amendment rights of workers in order to expand union power," said EFF labor policy director Mike Reitz. "The bill is premature, because the U.S. Supreme Court could rule on the constitutionality of the law at any time. "Signing this bill virtually guarantees continued litigation." The governor also signed measures dealing with: -NIGHTCLUB SPRINKLERS. The new law requires nightclubs to install automatic sprinkler systems by Dec. 1, 2009. -FARM FUEL. Biodiesel fuel, including diesel blend, is exempted from sales tax when used by farmers off the highway. -LEMON LAW. The state's "lemon law" protecting consumers who buy or lease vehicles is extended to out-of-state customers who buy or lease here and register them elsewhere. The union fees measure is House Bill 2079. The sprinkler bill is HB1811. The tax bill is SB5009. The lemon law bill is HB2135. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7470732.html Man tries to rescue stuck dog, gets stuck himself tries to rescue stuck dog, gets stuck himself PM PDT PIERCE COUNTY - Rescue crews aided a man and his dog after the two got stuck on Bridal Veil Falls in Pierce County, 1.3 miles south of Eatonville on Friday afternoon. Deputies said the man was trying to help his dog who had gotten stuck when he himself ran into trouble at the 30-feet level above the falls. Deputies said neither the man nor the dog are injured, but they were worried about being able to climb up safely. A high-angle rescue crew conducted a rope rescue. The crew roped and hoisted up the man to safety, then did the same with the dog. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7474072.html Newspaper's front page picture sparks controversy front page picture sparks controversy PM PDT The picture on the front page of the Seattle Weekly is a real head-turner, and that's exactly what the paper wants. The front page features a drawing of a disgruntled student wearing a shirt with the words "f--- school". The "f" word is not censored. The paper made the bold move to make people pick up the paper. But the picture has some people who didn't pick it up questioning how a paper that's sold visibly in stores and newstands get away it. Perry McCollister, says grabbing the Seattle Weekly was an eye-opener. "It looks like he's on drugs and he's saying 'f-- school.' That's not a good attitude," he said of the picture. It's the reaction the paper was hoping for. Their feature piece talks about truancy and students with bad attitudes toward schools, so why not a cover that reflects that? "I took a look at the guy on the cover and I thought, 'what is this guy thinking?' And it was crystal clear," said Mike Seely, the Weekly's managing editor. So they took the bold move and added "f--- school" on the shirt. "It's something of a risky endeavor, but we are the type of publication that can take chances and we did," Seely said. But William Thompson says he wasn't amused. "I couldn't believe you could actually print that and put it on a public newstand," William Thompson said. But since the "f"word is not considered obscene by law, you can. Still, some people want stores to pull the paper, and some have. Other stores like Scarecrow Video say they couldn't care less. "It doesn't do anything for me either way," said Matt Lynch, a clerk at Scarecrow. "We don't censor anything here at all." The Weekly did exercise a bit of self-censorship by not taking the same risk with its online version. The paper put the "f" word right on the front page for everyone, young and old, to see. But the picture on the site features the same disgruntled student, but no "f" word. Double standard? Seely says yes, and rightfully so. "What we do with the cover is totally different what we do on the Web. We are trying to grab people's attention and I think this cover, for better or worse, certainly succeeds in that capacity," he said. The Seattle Weekly has a circulation of roughly 107,000. KOMO 4 News has received several viewer e-mails complaining about the controversial cover. The Weekly admits it has received similar e-mails as well, but in numbers that were far fewer than were expected. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7472067.html WSU professor facing sexual harassment trial resigns professor facing sexual harassment trial resigns PM PDT PULLMAN, Wash. (AP) - A Washington State University professor sued by a student alleging sexual harassment has resigned as part of an agreement that will provide legal representation and pay any judgment in the lawsuit. Bernardo Gallegos, a professor of multicultural education since 2004, is accused of making advances toward a married graduate student in his home in February 2005. In exchange for his resignation, he will be paid more than $87,000 to buy out his tenure, though he will lose some benefits. His salary was more than $132,000 a year. The student, Christina Garcia, sued Gallegos and the university, saying her ability to get an education was damaged and that Gallegos wasn't adequately disciplined, although a university investigation concluded that he violated school policies. Gallegos has maintained his innocence. He did not immediately return a call for comment on Friday. The agreement between Gallegos and the WSU regents, approved May 4, said the university will defend and indemnify him in the Whitman County Superior Court lawsuit. The lawsuit alleges Gallegos committed sexual harassment when he took Garcia to his candlelit home in February 2005. Gallegos was not her direct supervisor or instructor, but was in a position to influence her education, a judge ruled. A trial is scheduled for September. Guy Nelson, who represents Garcia, said he was happy with the agreement. "We believe the board of regents took a very positive step," he said. The regents also have adopted a new policy on sexual harassment and discrimination. The revisions to the policy were first proposed shortly after the lawsuit was filed. The new policy creates new reporting responsibilities for supervisors and establishes a more specific range of disciplinary action. Assistant Attorney General Suzanne Parisien, who represents the university, said the agreement to sever ties with Gallegos was made in the best interest of the university. Parisien now will also defend Gallegos at trial. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7472772.html Son who faked retardation sentenced to prison who faked retardation sentenced to prison PM PDT TACOMA, Wash. (AP) - A Vancouver, Washington, man has been sentenced to 13 months in prison for pretending to be mentally regarded in order to claim disability benefits. 28-year-old Pete J. Costello was sentenced today in U.S. District Court by Judge Ronald Leighton in Tacoma. His mother, Rosie M. Costello, will be sentenced Thursday for coaching her son and daughter to feign mental retardation. The sister, Marie Costello, has not been located by authorities. Costello began receiving Social Security disability benefits when he was 8. He was ordered to repay the $59,226 he has received since turning 18. In 2005, federal agents received a tip that Costello had driver's licenses in three states under fake names. His mother claimed he was unable to dress or feed himself or even leave the house. Costello cannot read or write. His mother collected $287,715 during a 20-year period. killed phone bill, text message ban turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7511997.html Government seeks terrorist label for 10 arsonists facing sentencing seeks terrorist label for 10 arsonists facing sentencing Darren Todd Thurston, left, and Kevin M. Tubbs acknowledge friends as they are led from United States Federal Court in Eugene, Ore., on July 13, 2006. AM AM PDT EUGENE, Ore. (AP) - The issue of guilt or innocence has already been decided for six men and four women who admitted to involvement in arson fires around the West that did $40 million in damage. Now the question is: Are they terrorists? Judge Ann Aiken was to hear arguments Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Eugene on a motion by the government to add a so-called terrorism enhancement to sentencing guidelines. Prosecutors want a federal judge to declare the group terrorists - something defense attorneys argue has never happened in 1,200 arsons nationwide claimed by Earth Liberation Front and Animal Liberation Front. Defense attorneys say branding their clients terrorists is more about politics than sentencing. A ruling they are terrorists is not likely to boost the time they spend behind bars, but it could result in their being sent to tougher prisons. The ten face sentencing for their parts in the fires, which targeted forest ranger stations, meat packing plants, wild horse corrals, lumber mill offices, research facilities, an SUV dealer and a 1998 fire at Vail Ski Resort. Those charges carry prosecution sentencing recommendations ranging from three to 16 years. Defense motions argue that none of the fires killed or injured anyone, and the terrorism enhancement is really a way for the Bush administration to claim a victory in its war on terror. "The Government has Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' political agenda to advance with this case, and nothing else to lose if the Court declines to impose the enhancement," wrote attorney Terri Wood, who represents Stanislas G. Meyerhoff, who faces the stiffest sentence recommendation for his involvement in seven fires and toppling a high-tension power line. Under agreement by all parties, the terrorism enhancement issue will be settled in Meyerhoff's case and then applied to all the remaining defendants, all of whom have pleaded guilty to charges of conspiracy and arson. The case, known as Operation Backfire, is the biggest prosecution ever of environmental extremists, and has turned on its head the prevailing idea that arsonists have generally acted alone, said Brent Smith, director of the Terrorism Research Center at the University of Arkansas. "We thought these people operated for the last 15 years under this kind of uncoordinated violence approach, just like the extreme right was doing - leaderless resistance," Smith said. "That's why this case is so very different." Prosecution filings argue that though the defendants were never convicted of terrorism, they qualify for the label because at least one of the fires each of them set was intended to change or retaliate against government policy. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7503542.html Gregoire signs law to ease tuition costs for fallen soldiers' kin signs law to ease tuition costs for fallen soldiers' kin 2007 at 5:03 2007 at 5:03 PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - The state's public universities and colleges will waive tuition and fees for spouses and children of fallen soldiers, under a measure "Helping these children and spouses succeed in education is the least we could do," Gov. Chris Gregoire said before signing the bill. The bill, sponsored by Sen. Mike Hewitt, R-Walla Walla, takes effect in July. It will cover spouses and children of active-duty and National Guard members killed, disabled, captured or missing in action. After losing so much, "this will ensure they can move forward and get an education," Hewitt said. The bill unanimously passed the House and Senate during the legislative session that ended last month. Currently, Washington's colleges and universities have the option of waiving all or part of tuition and fees for the survivors of eligible veterans or National Guard members. Also - A measure to expedite construction of new ferries. The state is building at least four new ferries to serve the growing population in the Puget Sound region and to replace vessels that were built in 1927. The law allows shipbuilders to collaborate on a single joint proposal. The state could modify the plan. - A measure creating a panel to investigate racial disparity in child welfare. - A measure to address forest health issues, designating the state Department of Natural Resources as the state lead in developing a forest health program. The veterans' tuition bill is Substitute Senate Bill 5002. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7517172.html Drivers not cutting back much as gas prices soar not cutting back much as gas prices soar PM PDT KOMO Staff & News Services NEW YORK (AP) - For all their complaining as they pay $3 a gallon or more to fill up their cars, few American drivers have yet to reach the point of cutting back. That's the message from government statistics showing that demand for gasoline is only just starting to level off even as refinery outages and tight supplies have sent pump prices soaring by 43 percent since the end of January. The AAA auto club says the average price of a gallon of gas was $3.43 in Washington state on Tuesday. That's down a penny since Monday, but it's 35 cents higher than a month ago, 29 cents higher than a year ago and 34 cents higher than the national average. And brace yourself: experts say with gas already closing in on $4 a gallon in Chicago and San Francisco ahead of the peak summer driving season, higher prices could be in the cards. "I drive 55 miles each way to work every day," said Sandy Colden, of Medford, N.J., one recent morning while loading groceries into her Honda Pilot SUV. "So I really don't have a choice, unfortunately." Colden's not alone. Most Americans are locked into their driving habits, and can do little to alter their fuel-buying patterns when prices rise, experts say. For example, the number of workers with commutes lasting longer than 60 minutes grew by almost 50 percent between 1990 and 2000, according to Census Department data. But that usually means they have to cut back elsewhere, as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is finding to its distress. The world's largest retailer said Tuesday that earnings in the current quarter will fall short of Wall Street expectations, in part because of higher gas prices. Weekly gasoline demand in April increased as much as 1.9 percent over to the same weeks in 2006 even as the average national price of a gallon of gasoline grew from $2.71 to $2.97 by the end of the month, according to Energy Information Administration data. Only during the first week of May, when prices jumped to $3.05 a gallon, did demand for gasoline abate slightly - by about two-one hundredths of a percent, EIA figures showed. Experts disagree over how high prices have to rise before consumers are shocked into driving less - at least temporarily. "We might actually see some reaction at $3.50 (a gallon)" nationally, said Larry Compeau, executive officer of the Society for Consumer Psychology and professor of marketing and consumer psychology at Clarkson University in Potsdam, N.Y. Lars Perner, assistant professor of clinical marketing at the University of Southern California's business school, disagrees, saying the tipping point is more likely $4 a gallon. Try telling that to Jennifer Hoover, 32, a graphic designer who lives in the San Francisco area. She said she was startled by her bill - $58.69 to fill up her silver Audi sedan with $4.09 a gallon premium gasoline on Tuesday - but was late for an appointment and had no other choice. "I was just thinking when I drove up - 'Why am I stopping here when it's $4.09?"' she said. "But it's on my way and I'm late and I have to do what I have to do." Eddie Engles, 37, didn't blink twice after he filled up his GMC Yukon at a gas station near downtown Chicago on Tuesday. At $3.71 a gallon, the fill-up cost the clothing distributor $83.89. "That's a new record. Every time I pump up, it's a new record," he said. Engles, who uses his SUV to haul his wares, said he has few options when it comes to cutting down on travel and gas expenses. "I just need it," he said. "What am I going to do? Not fill up?" There was a definite consumer reaction in September 2005 after Hurricane Katrina outages pushed prices above $3 gasoline for the first time. Demand dropped as much as 6.5 percent. "There was ... something significant psychologically about the $3 barrier," said Perner. Since then, however, consumers seem to have adapted, with demand rising throughout a brief period of prices above $3 a gallon last summer. "People complain about higher oil prices ... but they still drive their cars, they still buy their SUVs, they don't want to carpool," said Fadel Gheit, an energy analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. "It's a little inconvenient for me to take the bus," said David Harris, 31, a film school marketing manager in Los Angeles who commutes 40 miles a day for work. Consumers may suspect that oil refiners are colluding in the recent price spike, but analysts say the real culprit is an unprecedented number of refinery accidents and maintenance outages this spring - combined with drivers' rising demand for fuel. Most prominent of the outages was a February fire that shut down Valero Energy Corp.'s 170,000 barrel-per-day McKee refinery in Sunray, Texas, for months. "If you just count incidents, there are more this year than there have been in previous years," said Mike Conner, a specialist on refinery operations at the EIA. As a result, gasoline inventories fell by more than half to 93.5 million barrels in the week ended May 4 from 205.1 million barrels in the same week in 2006 and 214.7 million barrels in 2005, according to government figures. Charles Drevna, executive vice president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners' Association, said many refineries shut down for maintenance for the first time since their operations were kicked into overdrive by Hurricane Katrina. When the 2005 storm knocked out gas and oil facilities along the Gulf Coast, refineries in other parts of the country had to step in and pick up the slack, Drevna said. In many cases, that meant putting off regular maintenance for years. "There's still a lasting effect from that," Drevna said. Also, he said, the process of turning crude oil into gasoline has become more complicated over the years, particularly as different governmental entities have mandated changes to the chemical makeup of gasoline for environmental reasons. It takes more equipment, more complicated processes and more oil to make gasoline now than it used to, Drevna said. Drevna said refiners have been steadily expanding their existing facilities, adding the equivalent of one new refinery a year, on average, every year for more than a decade. That's a cheaper and faster way to expand refinery capacity than going through the multiyeaer process of trying to win a permit to build new plants, he said. While higher gas prices haven't done much to cut demand, they also don't appear to have had much effect on consumers' car-buying behavior, according to Autodata Corp. Sales of lights trucks and SUVs declined 3 percent in April, less than the 12 percent slump in car sales. Light trucks and SUVs continue to make up the majority of vehicle sales in the U.S., or about 53 percent. At a Chevron station in San Francisco that was charging $3.95 for a gallon of regular gasoline Nathan Sullins, 31, a computer programmer, gloated as he filled up his Toyota Prius hybrid for a fraction of what other drivers were paying. "High gas prices are a bummer, but you reap what you sow," he said. "If we had started making fuel-efficient cars 10 years ago, we wouldn't be in this situation." William Hill, of Pittsburgh, said he'd consider downsizing from his minivan to a hybrid sedan if hybrids weren't more expensive. "They charge you more for a hybrid to compensate for what you would pay for gas," Hill said while gassing his minivan along the Pennsylvania Turnpike one day last week. "So either way, you lose." higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7511737.html Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash killed in high-speed crash AM PM PDT PUYALLUP, Wash. -- A speeding motorcyclist was killed early Tuesday when he lost control and crashed, sending the motorcycle flying into oncoming traffic. State Patrol spokesman Mark Lewis said the motorcyclist was speeding north on River Road near 31st Street when he slammed into a pickup truck that was in front of him about 3:30 a.m. The motorcycle and one of its wheels flew into oncoming traffic and struck two other vehicles. No one in the other cars was injured. The motorcyclist was killed instantly. He was identified as 39-year-old Michael J. Bartholomew, of Edgewood. Traffic in the area was snarled during the morning commute, as troopers shut down several lanes of River Road for the duration of their investigation. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock Family has questions after man is found dead
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7517487.html Seattle man survives after truck runs over his head man survives after truck runs over his head PM PDT MILWAUKEE (AP) - Ryan Lipscomb lived to tell how it felt to have a truck run over his head. "Really strange," he said. Lipscomb, 26 of Seattle, suffered a concussion but was otherwise unhurt. He was shaken up, especially after he saw his mangled helmet. Lipscomb, a graduate student in medical physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, was riding down a bike path in Madison on Friday afternoon. As he approached an intersection, he said, he noticed the oncoming delivery truck preparing to make a right turn in front of him. The truck wasn't going to stop, Lipscomb said, so he slammed on his brakes, flipping his bike and landing in the street. A moment later the truck rolled over his head. "I didn't see it coming, but I sure felt it roll over my head," he told The Capital Times newspaper. "It feels really strange to have a truck run over your head." His black helmet was flattened, tread marks visible on the cracked frame. Lipscomb was taken to a hospital and released about three hours later. Police initially declined to call the incident a hit-and-run, saying it was unclear whether the driver knew someone had been hit. But Sgt. Bernie Gonzalez later updated the accident report to include the designation. Police spokesman Mike Hanson said Tuesday there haven't been any arrests because investigators haven't been able to identity the driver. In a telephone interview Tuesday with The Associated Press, Lipscomb said he has had some lingering headaches and a stiff neck. "All things considered, that's about as good as it can get," he said. Despite the close call, he said, he has to focus on school because his qualifying exam for the Ph.D program is next week. "I think it will probably hit me when I'm done with exams," Lipscomb said. Lipscomb does plan to ride again, he just prefers to wait until after exams are over. "After that, I'll go out and get a new helmet and be back on my bike," he said. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local Seattle man survives after truck runs over his head Ryan Lipscomb lived to tell how it felt to have a truck run over his head. "Really strange," he said. He suffered a concussion but was otherwise unhurt. Lipscomb was shaken up, especially after he saw his mangled helmet. More Drivers not cutting back much as gas prices soar For all their complaining as they pay $3 a gallon or more to fill up their cars, few drivers have yet to reach the point of cutting back. That's the message from government statistics showing that demand for gasoline is only just starting to level off even as prices continue to rise. Former state Senator Bob Oke dies Former state Sen. Bob Oke, a senior Republican known for battling the tobacco industry and promoting a new Tacoma Narrows Bridge, has died after a public battle with a rare form of cancer. Copper River salmon arrive in style Seattle among top cities for courteous drivers Passenger: It was like a bad 'Titanic' remake Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Government seeks terrorist label for 10 arsonists facing sentencing Family has questions after man is found dead Gregoire signs law to ease tuition costs for fallen soldiers' kin Vandals damage 28 school buses in Mason County Inmate shot at Thurston County Jail Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers From dishwashers to jagged metal, it all ends up on the road Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Woman pleads not-guilty in crash that killed son Redmond foster father pleads guilty to sexual exploitation Man turns himself in after fatal hit-and-run Police: Man tried to kidnap teens at gunpoint Missing man's body found 40 yards from his car Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock Summer of construction delays ahead Hundreds gather to honor breast cancer victims, survivors Fort Lewis soldier gets long-awaited about-face Seattle man disappears while out with his father Clogged pipe floods homes with sewage U.S. Navy Blue Angels confirm plans to fly at Seafair Dog killed, 3 injured after train collides with car Oregon town installs 'a bit of Big Brother' 3 families displaced by Pierce County apartment fire Ore. County plans devices to find missing persons Yakima County settles claims over delays at jail Two-car collision sends three to hospital Man charged in Everett with racially-motivated malicious harassment Recent losses raise new questions about Stryker Man run over by train near Safeco Field Five climbers rescued from Mount Hood Former OSU star charged in prostitution case Man who was tasered in Spokane dies Bear found in Centralia tree Man strikes woman in head with hammer in Beaverton Spokane-area parishes raising $10 million for sex abuse victims Invasive zebra mussels reaching NW via boats Man dies after being found in burning truck Son who faked retardation sentenced to prison 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Former students win $9 million settlement in fraud case Local man at center of search for stolen millions Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock Family has questions after man is found dead
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7515947.html Former state Senator Bob Oke dies state Senator Bob Oke dies AM AM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Former state Sen. Bob Oke, a senior Republican known for battling the tobacco industry and promoting a new Tacoma Narrows Bridge, has died after a public battle with a rare form of cancer. Oke, a 16-year veteran of the Senate, died Monday night after a three-year battle against multiple myeloma, which targets plasma cells and weakens the bones, the Senate Republican caucus said. He was 66. The Port Orchard conservative, a favorite with lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle before retiring in January, had been open about his struggles with the disease. He underwent stem-cell transplants twice, as well as chemotherapy and radiation therapy that kept the disease at bay for part of his final four-year term. He had missed part of the 2005 session and sometimes used a wheelchair or cane. He kept his fellow legislators abreast of his illness and various treatments. "A lot of prayer is needed, and I appreciate your support," he told the Senate at one point. "You've always been there for me." The Senate gave him tributes in both 2005 and 2006, with many of his colleagues openly crying. Senate Majority Leader Lisa Brown said during one tribute that Oke "greeted each day so courageously." "If you can address what you're addressing with such courage and grace, we should certainly do the same thing," she said. Oke, 66, a 26-year Navy veteran, was treated at the Veterans' Administration Hospital in Seattle. Oke, pronounced Oak, served four, four-year terms and was a leader of the natural resources and fisheries panel. He was best known for his staunch support for the new Narrows bridge, which will open in a few weeks, and for his efforts to combat youth smoking. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7512132.html Passenger: It was like a bad 'Titanic' remake It was like a bad 'Titanic' remake Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock AM AM PDT JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) - When Linda Starn was jolted awake early Monday, she thought an earthquake had struck. It took the woman from Apple Valley, Ca., a second to realize where she was. She was in Alaska, on a cruise, and her ship had just run aground in the middle of the night. Starn and the other passengers were told to don life vests and gather in the ballroom, where they waited to be rescued. They sang "oldies but goodies" with a piano player and singer - one of the tunes was "Take Me Out to the Ballgame" - as the ship slowly listed to one side. "It looked like a really bad remake of the 'Titanic,"' Starn said. Starn and her husband Jack were on their first-ever cruise when the Empress of the North, a riverboat-style cruise ship, hit a rock in Alaska's Inside Passage, forcing the evacuation of more than 200 passengers. Starn said that she was terrified at first, but that the rescue went smoothly. "No one got excited. No one panicked," Starn said. The Empress of the North had 206 passengers and 75 crew members aboard when it sent out an emergency radio message around 2 a.m., the Coast Guard said. When Coast Guard helicopters reached the area, the vessel was listing at the southern end of Icy Strait, about 50 miles southwest of Juneau, and it began taking on water, the Coast Guard said. As the ship's pumps worked to remove the water, the passengers were transferred to other boats in the area and then to an Alaska state ferry to be taken to Juneau. "It couldn't have been better orchestrated, the way things fell into place," said Petty Officer Barry Lane. The Empress of the North floated free of the rock during the evacuation, and the crew was able to stabilize the ship, said the Coast Guard. State officials said the hull sustained significant damage. The passengers were bused to Juneau's convention center, where, tired and disheveled, they got food and a place to lie down. Arrangements were being made to fly everyone home the same day. "I considered it an adventure, although I'd have rather been doing something else," said Mary Crosby, 83, of Seattle. The fishing vessel Evening Star was about five miles away, finishing a halibut trip, when its crew heard the mayday call. "They were laying over pretty heavy to one side," Evening Star Capt. Blake Painter told CNN. He said his boat pulled alongside and took 33 passengers, while another fishing boat pulled up and took a few more. A Coast Guard cutter and a few more boats had arrived about an hour later, and all the passengers were taken off safely, he said. It wasn't immediately clear why the cruise ship ran around, the Coast Guard said. It was drizzling in Juneau, but the seas were calm. The National Transportation Safety Board was to investigate. The Empress of the North is operated by Majestic America Line of Seattle. The ship has 112 staterooms, a three-story paddlewheel, and galleries featuring American Indian masks and Russian artwork, including Faberge eggs, according to its Web site. The 360-foot ship is less than half the size of the average cruise ship in the Caribbean and is dwarfed by most cruise other ships off the Alaska coast. The grounding occurred on the second day of a seven-day cruise, said Dan Miller, a spokesman for Majestic America. The American-built ship is billed by the company as the only overnight paddlewheel vessel in use on Alaska cruises. It also is used on cruises on the Columbia River between Washington state and Oregon. The Empress of the North has had other problems since it began operating in mid-2003. In October 2003, it hit a navigation lock on the Snake River in Washington. It has also run aground at least twice before - once after developing steering problems on the Columbia River, and once on a sandbar near Washougal, Wash., as it tried to avoid a barge. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7507257.html Family has questions after man is found dead has questions after man is found dead Raw video: Interview with his daughter-in-law Raw video: Sheriff's office talks about case 2007 at 11:52 AM PDT By Anita Kissee and KATU Web Staff IDANHA, Ore. - The family of a missing 76-year-old man in the early stages of dementia, whose body was found nearly a week after his car was discovered, says changes need to be made in how these types of cases are handled. Marvin Wright disappeared from Bonney Lake, Washington on April 25 and his family had been frantically searching for him since then - passing out flyers and chasing dozens of sightings. "We worked very hard, all of us," said his daughter-in-law, Amy Wright. "We did everything possible that you could do to try to find him." Marvin Wright's car, a 1998 Toyota Camry with personalized plates, was found Tuesday, May 8 on a gravel road east of Detroit Lake, but according to what his family was told, the plates were not ran until Monday, May 14. A report about the car , which was found by a U.S. Forest Service worker, sat on a supervisor's desk for nearly a week, according to the family, before it was linked to Wright's missing person's report. When the Marion County Sheriff's Office was contacted on Monday, it did not take them long to find Wright's body, which was about 40 yards from the car. "He had taken his shoes and socks off and it looks like he probably died of hypothermia," said Wright. "He was found lying not too far from the car." Wright's family is now devastated and they say police need better communication. A similar incident happened in another local missing person's case - the disappearance of Beverly Johnson, a grandmother from Beaverton. Johnson disappeared in January and the same day, someone in Gray's Harbor County in Washington state called 911 and identified her purple Honda and license plate number. However, the dispatcher never assigned an officer to follow up on the call, despite a missing person's report. Johnson was found dead 11 days later. Now, another family is left wondering if their loved one could have been saved. "This is obviously not the outcome any of us wanted," said Wright. "But I think at this point, for me and the family, we need to make sure this doesn't happen to any other family and that something needs to change." It will now be up to the Marion County Medical Examiner to determine exactly when Wright died. According to the Marion County Sheriff's Office, it does not appear that foul play was involved in his death. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7514712.html Copper River salmon arrive in style River salmon arrive in style A fishmonger throws the first Copper River salmon from a cargo jetliner after its arrival at Sea-Tac airport on Tuesday. AM PM PDT SEATAC, Wash. -- Copper River salmon arrived in Seattle on Tuesday, and if you want a taste you might want to start saving up. The first delivery landed at Sea-Tac Airport after a flight from Alaska, and the popular fish will be in restaurants by Tuesday evening. Just hours after being unloaded, some of the salmon were already on sale at area grocery stores. The flight holding the first 32,000 pounds of Copper River salmon was met by fishmongers from Pike Place Market and got the red carpet treatment -- literally. But the famous fish throwers bypassed the carpet for the first few salmon and tossed them from the airplane's door to receivers waiting below. Distributors were watching and made sure they got their piece. "This kind of gets the excitement going because it really is, it's a dead fish," said Frank Ragusa of Ocean Beauty Seafood. "But look at all of the press coverage we got today. Look at all of the people, all of the smiles. Everyone's excited. It's about dead fish -- dead, wet fish." But those dead, wet fish can mean big money. The salmon are caught at the mouth of the Copper River in Cordova, Alaska. The already dangerous area became even more hazardous on opening fishing day when 50 MPH winds whipped the choppy sea. Smaller boats could not go out in the heavy waves, so fewer fish were caught. "If the weather doesn't improve, what does that mean? They'll still be able to fish, but they are limited to 12 hours," said Sean O'Leary. "It just depends on how many guys go out and risk it to get the fish." That means the prices will be higher than normal for at least the first week, but grocers and restaurant owners aren't worried about finding customers who will pay. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7512222.html Seattle among top cities for courteous drivers among top cities for courteous drivers AM AM PDT MIAMI (AP) - For the second consecutive year, rude Miami drivers have earned the city the title of worst road rage in a survey released Tuesday. Miami motorists said they saw other drivers slam on their brakes, run red lights and talk on cell phones, according to AutoVantage, a Connecticut-based automobile membership club offering travel services and roadside assistance. Other cities near the top of the rude drivers list were New York, Boston, Los Angeles and Washington, D.C. South Miami resident Erik Pinto told The Associated Press that he has probably seen every bad driving habit on Miami's roads. "You don't want to know what I've seen," Pinto said. "I've seen everything. I'm from L.A., and we don't see the crazy drivers that you see here." The most courteous drivers can be found in Portland, Ore.; Pittsburgh; the Seattle-Tacoma area; St. Louis; and Dallas-Fort Worth, the survey found. Portland drivers were the least likely on the list to see other motorists tailgating on the roadways, and St. Louis motorists were the least likely to swear at another driver, according to the survey. Minneapolis-St. Paul was rated the most courteous city in 2006, but it slipped to the middle of the list this year. The most frequent cause of road rage cited in the survey was impatient motorists. Drivers also said road rage can stem from poor driving in fast lanes and driving while stressed, frustrated or angry. "The best piece of advice is to take a deep breath. Slow down, be aware and be careful," AutoVantage spokesman Todd Smith said, adding the aim of the survey is to increase driver safety across the nation. More than 2,500 drivers who regularly commute in 25 major metropolitan areas were asked to rate road rage and rude driving in telephone surveys between January and March. The survey was conducted by Prince Market Research has a margin of error of plus or minus 2 percentage points. Residents in the following 25 cities were surveyed and are listed in order from those reporting the most incidents of road rage to the fewest: higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7517487.html Seattle man survives after truck runs over his head man survives after truck runs over his head PM PDT MILWAUKEE (AP) - Ryan Lipscomb lived to tell how it felt to have a truck run over his head. "Really strange," he said. Lipscomb, 26 of Seattle, suffered a concussion but was otherwise unhurt. He was shaken up, especially after he saw his mangled helmet. Lipscomb, a graduate student in medical physics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, was riding down a bike path in Madison on Friday afternoon. As he approached an intersection, he said, he noticed the oncoming delivery truck preparing to make a right turn in front of him. The truck wasn't going to stop, Lipscomb said, so he slammed on his brakes, flipping his bike and landing in the street. A moment later the truck rolled over his head. "I didn't see it coming, but I sure felt it roll over my head," he told The Capital Times newspaper. "It feels really strange to have a truck run over your head." His black helmet was flattened, tread marks visible on the cracked frame. Lipscomb was taken to a hospital and released about three hours later. Police initially declined to call the incident a hit-and-run, saying it was unclear whether the driver knew someone had been hit. But Sgt. Bernie Gonzalez later updated the accident report to include the designation. Police spokesman Mike Hanson said Tuesday there haven't been any arrests because investigators haven't been able to identity the driver. In a telephone interview Tuesday with The Associated Press, Lipscomb said he has had some lingering headaches and a stiff neck. "All things considered, that's about as good as it can get," he said. Despite the close call, he said, he has to focus on school because his qualifying exam for the Ph.D program is next week. "I think it will probably hit me when I'm done with exams," Lipscomb said. Lipscomb does plan to ride again, he just prefers to wait until after exams are over. "After that, I'll go out and get a new helmet and be back on my bike," he said. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7517172.html Drivers not cutting back much as gas prices soar not cutting back much as gas prices soar PM PDT KOMO Staff & News Services NEW YORK (AP) - For all their complaining as they pay $3 a gallon or more to fill up their cars, few American drivers have yet to reach the point of cutting back. That's the message from government statistics showing that demand for gasoline is only just starting to level off even as refinery outages and tight supplies have sent pump prices soaring by 43 percent since the end of January. The AAA auto club says the average price of a gallon of gas was $3.43 in Washington state on Tuesday. That's down a penny since Monday, but it's 35 cents higher than a month ago, 29 cents higher than a year ago and 34 cents higher than the national average. And brace yourself: experts say with gas already closing in on $4 a gallon in Chicago and San Francisco ahead of the peak summer driving season, higher prices could be in the cards. "I drive 55 miles each way to work every day," said Sandy Colden, of Medford, N.J., one recent morning while loading groceries into her Honda Pilot SUV. "So I really don't have a choice, unfortunately." Colden's not alone. Most Americans are locked into their driving habits, and can do little to alter their fuel-buying patterns when prices rise, experts say. For example, the number of workers with commutes lasting longer than 60 minutes grew by almost 50 percent between 1990 and 2000, according to Census Department data. But that usually means they have to cut back elsewhere, as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. is finding to its distress. The world's largest retailer said Tuesday that earnings in the current quarter will fall short of Wall Street expectations, in part because of higher gas prices. Weekly gasoline demand in April increased as much as 1.9 percent over to the same weeks in 2006 even as the average national price of a gallon of gasoline grew from $2.71 to $2.97 by the end of the month, according to Energy Information Administration data. Only during the first week of May, when prices jumped to $3.05 a gallon, did demand for gasoline abate slightly - by about two-one hundredths of a percent, EIA figures showed. Experts disagree over how high prices have to rise before consumers are shocked into driving less - at least temporarily. "We might actually see some reaction at $3.50 (a gallon)" nationally, said Larry Compeau, executive officer of the Society for Consumer Psychology and professor of marketing and consumer psychology at Clarkson University in Potsdam, N.Y. Lars Perner, assistant professor of clinical marketing at the University of Southern California's business school, disagrees, saying the tipping point is more likely $4 a gallon. Try telling that to Jennifer Hoover, 32, a graphic designer who lives in the San Francisco area. She said she was startled by her bill - $58.69 to fill up her silver Audi sedan with $4.09 a gallon premium gasoline on Tuesday - but was late for an appointment and had no other choice. "I was just thinking when I drove up - 'Why am I stopping here when it's $4.09?"' she said. "But it's on my way and I'm late and I have to do what I have to do." Eddie Engles, 37, didn't blink twice after he filled up his GMC Yukon at a gas station near downtown Chicago on Tuesday. At $3.71 a gallon, the fill-up cost the clothing distributor $83.89. "That's a new record. Every time I pump up, it's a new record," he said. Engles, who uses his SUV to haul his wares, said he has few options when it comes to cutting down on travel and gas expenses. "I just need it," he said. "What am I going to do? Not fill up?" There was a definite consumer reaction in September 2005 after Hurricane Katrina outages pushed prices above $3 gasoline for the first time. Demand dropped as much as 6.5 percent. "There was ... something significant psychologically about the $3 barrier," said Perner. Since then, however, consumers seem to have adapted, with demand rising throughout a brief period of prices above $3 a gallon last summer. "People complain about higher oil prices ... but they still drive their cars, they still buy their SUVs, they don't want to carpool," said Fadel Gheit, an energy analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. "It's a little inconvenient for me to take the bus," said David Harris, 31, a film school marketing manager in Los Angeles who commutes 40 miles a day for work. Consumers may suspect that oil refiners are colluding in the recent price spike, but analysts say the real culprit is an unprecedented number of refinery accidents and maintenance outages this spring - combined with drivers' rising demand for fuel. Most prominent of the outages was a February fire that shut down Valero Energy Corp.'s 170,000 barrel-per-day McKee refinery in Sunray, Texas, for months. "If you just count incidents, there are more this year than there have been in previous years," said Mike Conner, a specialist on refinery operations at the EIA. As a result, gasoline inventories fell by more than half to 93.5 million barrels in the week ended May 4 from 205.1 million barrels in the same week in 2006 and 214.7 million barrels in 2005, according to government figures. Charles Drevna, executive vice president of the National Petrochemical and Refiners' Association, said many refineries shut down for maintenance for the first time since their operations were kicked into overdrive by Hurricane Katrina. When the 2005 storm knocked out gas and oil facilities along the Gulf Coast, refineries in other parts of the country had to step in and pick up the slack, Drevna said. In many cases, that meant putting off regular maintenance for years. "There's still a lasting effect from that," Drevna said. Also, he said, the process of turning crude oil into gasoline has become more complicated over the years, particularly as different governmental entities have mandated changes to the chemical makeup of gasoline for environmental reasons. It takes more equipment, more complicated processes and more oil to make gasoline now than it used to, Drevna said. Drevna said refiners have been steadily expanding their existing facilities, adding the equivalent of one new refinery a year, on average, every year for more than a decade. That's a cheaper and faster way to expand refinery capacity than going through the multiyeaer process of trying to win a permit to build new plants, he said. While higher gas prices haven't done much to cut demand, they also don't appear to have had much effect on consumers' car-buying behavior, according to Autodata Corp. Sales of lights trucks and SUVs declined 3 percent in April, less than the 12 percent slump in car sales. Light trucks and SUVs continue to make up the majority of vehicle sales in the U.S., or about 53 percent. At a Chevron station in San Francisco that was charging $3.95 for a gallon of regular gasoline Nathan Sullins, 31, a computer programmer, gloated as he filled up his Toyota Prius hybrid for a fraction of what other drivers were paying. "High gas prices are a bummer, but you reap what you sow," he said. "If we had started making fuel-efficient cars 10 years ago, we wouldn't be in this situation." William Hill, of Pittsburgh, said he'd consider downsizing from his minivan to a hybrid sedan if hybrids weren't more expensive. "They charge you more for a hybrid to compensate for what you would pay for gas," Hill said while gassing his minivan along the Pennsylvania Turnpike one day last week. "So either way, you lose." higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7519637.html Gregoire signs prison reforms into law signs prison reforms into law PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - A wide-ranging plan to keep criminals from returning to the state's crowded prison system became law Tuesday, with Gov. Chris Gregoire saying treatment and training programs will strike at the roots of crime. The package, estimated to cost about $30 million over the next two years, seeks to help inmates build skills and education while behind bars. It also offers up to half off a prison sentence for those who follow the program. Once they're released, ex-convicts will get help lining up community services. But they also will face stiffer penalties for repeat parole violations. If it's successful, officials say the plan could help cut the next decade's prison capacity shortfall by more than 25 percent. "We cannot continue to build more prisons," Gregoire said Tuesday. "We must address the causes of crime and give former offenders the skills and treatment they need to stay out of prison." The state prison system has been under increasing fire for the "revolving door" of felons. Three law-enforcement officers died at the hands of ex-cons who were under state supervision last year. Washington's prison population stands at about 18,000, including about 2,000 in county jails and out-of-state private facilities. The state pays roughly $27,000 per year to house each of them. The Department of Corrections releases 8,500 ex-cons back into their home communities every year, typically after they've served about two-thirds of their sentences. Officials say four out of 10 ex-convicts commit new crimes within five years. The prison measure tries to stem that flow in several ways: -A major component requires each inmate to have a "re-entry" plan, including education, job training and other needs. Inmates will be able to earn two-year college degrees behind bars if financed by family, outsiders or loans. -The package will link ex-convicts with community services, coordinate tracking by the criminal justice system, and impose stiffer penalties for repeat violations of probation. -Offenders could get their sentences halved if they take part in education, drug treatment and other programs behind bars. The measure had strong support from both political parties in the state Senate, including sponsorship by Sen. Mike Carrel, R-Lakewood. But Republicans in the state House raised objections. Rep. Doug Ericksen, R-Ferndale, said the reform package doesn't hold ex-cons accountable enough for their repeat crimes once they're back on the street. "This is an experiment that distracts us from the real issue of protecting citizens," he said. "If this works, that's great. If this leads to more violent felons being released earlier, then I have problems with that." higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style
http://www.komotv.com/news/local Gregoire signs prison reforms into law A wide-ranging plan to keep criminals from returning to the state's crowded prison system became law Tuesday, with Gov. Chris Gregoire saying treatment and training programs will strike at the roots of crime. More Driver at large after elderly woman killed in hit-and-run crash Police in Burien are searching for a driver who struck and killed an 81-year-old woman who was crossing a street Tuesday afternoon. Police have blocked off Ambaum Boulevard while they collect evidence and interview witnesses. Seattle man survives after truck runs over his head Ryan Lipscomb lived to tell how it felt to have a truck run over his head. "Really strange," he said. He suffered a concussion but was otherwise unhurt. Lipscomb was shaken up, especially after he saw his mangled helmet. Drivers not cutting back much as gas prices soar Former state Senator Bob Oke dies Copper River salmon arrive in style Seattle among top cities for courteous drivers Passenger: It was like a bad 'Titanic' remake Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Government seeks terrorist label for 10 arsonists facing sentencing Family has questions after man is found dead Gregoire signs law to ease tuition costs for fallen soldiers' kin Vandals damage 28 school buses in Mason County Inmate shot at Thurston County Jail Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers From dishwashers to jagged metal, it all ends up on the road Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Woman pleads not-guilty in crash that killed son Redmond foster father pleads guilty to sexual exploitation Man turns himself in after fatal hit-and-run Police: Man tried to kidnap teens at gunpoint Missing man's body found 40 yards from his car Seattle cruise ship evacuated after hitting rock Summer of construction delays ahead Hundreds gather to honor breast cancer victims, survivors Fort Lewis soldier gets long-awaited about-face Seattle man disappears while out with his father Clogged pipe floods homes with sewage U.S. Navy Blue Angels confirm plans to fly at Seafair Dog killed, 3 injured after train collides with car Oregon town installs 'a bit of Big Brother' 3 families displaced by Pierce County apartment fire Ore. County plans devices to find missing persons Yakima County settles claims over delays at jail Two-car collision sends three to hospital Man charged in Everett with racially-motivated malicious harassment Recent losses raise new questions about Stryker Man run over by train near Safeco Field Five climbers rescued from Mount Hood Former OSU star charged in prostitution case Man who was tasered in Spokane dies Bear found in Centralia tree Man strikes woman in head with hammer in Beaverton Spokane-area parishes raising $10 million for sex abuse victims Invasive zebra mussels reaching NW via boats Man dies after being found in burning truck Son who faked retardation sentenced to prison 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7515947.html Former state Senator Bob Oke dies state Senator Bob Oke dies AM PM PDT OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) - Former state Sen. Bob Oke, a senior Republican known for battling the tobacco industry and promoting a new Tacoma Narrows Bridge, has died after a public battle with a rare form of cancer. Colleagues at the Capitol praised his peaceful, upbeat demeanor in the chaotic world of politics, and hailed his work on a variety of issues during his 16-year legislative tenure that followed a long Navy career. Oke, a 16-year veteran of the Senate, died Monday night at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Seattle after a three-year battle against multiple myeloma, which targets plasma cells and weakens the bones, the Senate Republican caucus said. Oke died just weeks before the scheduled July opening of the new bridge linking Tacoma and the Kitsap Peninsula he represented. Oke championed the bridge even though the $800 million toll project was controversial in his 26th District and nearly cost him re-election. State Transportation Secretary Doug MacDonald was on his way to the hospital Tuesday with a symbolic bridge-opening ribbon for Oke to cut before his impending death. The family said he learned of Oke's death shortly before he got to the hospital. Oke, a Port Orchard conservative, was a favorite with lawmakers on both sides of the political aisle before retiring in January, and had been open about his struggles with the disease. He underwent stem-cell transplants twice, as well as chemotherapy and radiation therapy that kept the disease at bay for part of his final four-year term. He had missed part of the 2005 session and sometimes used a wheelchair or cane. He kept his fellow legislators abreast of his illness and various treatments. "A lot of prayer is needed, and I appreciate your support," he told the Senate at one point. "You've always been there for me." The Senate gave him tributes in both 2005 and 2006, with many of his colleagues openly crying. Senate Majority Leader Lisa Brown, D-Spokane, said during one tribute that Oke "greeted each day so courageously." Oke was born in Spokane and reared in West Seattle. He served in the Navy for 26 years, retiring as a senior chief petty officer. He was elected to the Senate in 1990 and re-elected three times. Oke, pronounced Oak, was leader of the natural resources and fisheries panel and worked on transportation issues. He was best known for his staunch support for the new Narrows bridge, which will open in July, and for his efforts to combat youth smoking. His proudest accomplishment was pushing through a ban on free tobacco samples, a bill that was later overturned by a federal judge. "He is definitely going to be missed," Brown said in an interview Tuesday. "We really appreciated working with him on a variety of issues and in particular, I will remember his battle over the tobacco bill." Senate Republican Leader Mike Hewitt of Walla Walla spent a few hours at Oke's bedside before his death. "I had so much respect for Bob," he said. "He was solid as a rock. He had a good moral compass and did what he thought was right, regardless of the political consequences. He thought, for instance, that building the bridge was the right thing to do even though it might result in him losing his seat." Oke's candor about his illness was refreshing, he said. "He brought a calmness to our caucus," Hewitt said. "He was uplifting and I really liked his peaceful way. He only spoke when he needed to, and when he did, people listened." In a posting on Oke's personal Web site after his death, the family said "There are pheasants in heaven!" That was a reference to Oke's passion for pheasant hunting. A year ago, he went hunting with a walker when he was weak. The Legislature last year renamed the state pheasant farm in Lewis County in his honor. "Lots of prayers were offered by so many at his bedside," the family posting said. "He went very peacefully and with no pain." Services will be announced later. He will be buried at the National Veterans Cemetery in Kent. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style
http://www.komotv.com/news/local/7519342.html Driver at large after elderly woman killed in hit-and-run crash at large after elderly woman killed in hit-and-run crash PM PDT BURIEN, Wash. -- Police in Burien are searching for a driver who struck and killed an elderly woman who was walking Tuesday afternoon. King County sheriff spokesman John Urquhart said the 81-year-old woman was hit about 12:40 p.m. in the 13500 block of Ambaum Boulevard. Detectives from the department's major accident reconstruction team blocked off the road while they collected evidence and interviewed witnesses. Urquhart said the woman, who has not been identified, was crossing the street in a marked crosswalk. She died at the scene. The car that hit the woman is described as a mid-90s tan or gold Lincoln Town Car. It has dark tinted windows and front-end damage. Anyone who sees the car is asked to call 911. higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style
