http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6699305.stm | UK 'must pay more for emissions' 28 May 2007, 23:13 GMT 00:13 'must pay more for emissions' The UK must pay more for the damage it does, Oxfam says The UK must donate more money to poorer countries to help them cope with climate change, according to a charity. Oxfam said Britain had pledged £20m in "adaptation funds" - but needed to pay a further £1.2bn. They reached the figure by combining the amount of emissions a country produces with its ability to pay. The government said it was spending "more money than ever" to lift people out of poverty and make them less vulnerable to climate change. In the run-up to next month's G8 summit in Germany, Oxfam warned that £25bin was needed to fund projects in poor countries. But the world's richest nations have so far pledged only £90m in total, the charity said. The UK has pledged at least £75 million to support adaptation directly Its report concluded developed countries should foot 80% of the bill for poorer countries to adapt. Oxfam's Kate Raworth said: "Rich countries are already making huge investments at home to adapt to climate change - so they know the scale of the problem. "But they are stalling when it comes to providing money for poorer countries to do the same." She said developing countries "cannot and should not be expected to foot the bill for the impact of rich countries' emissions". The UK is already the world's biggest contributor to adaptation projects. But the charity said the UK should pay 5% of the £25bn needed. A spokesman for the Department for International Development (DfID) the UK was "at the forefront of supporting poor countries adapt". "The UK has pledged at least £75m to support adaptation directly. "For example, at the grassroots level we are investing in schemes such as safer flood resistant housing for thousands of people in Bangladesh." He said "more work needs to be done" to work out exactly how rich nations help poorer ones to adapt to climate change. plea to Blair over Africa 11 Mar 07 | UK Stars donate to Darfur aid sale 24 Apr 07 | Entertainment Department for International Development in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/south_of_scotland/6704091.stm | South of Scotland | Sightings hope for rare farm bird 30 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 hope for rare farm bird The corn bunting is thought to have returned to the Borders - picture by Tom Marshall A small group of rare farmland birds has been found in the Borders - years after conservationists believed that just one of them remained in the area. The corn bunting - known as the "fat bird of the barley" - was once a common sight across Scotland and the UK. In recent decades, however, its numbers had fallen due to changes in traditional farming practices. Conservationists have urged the public to call them if the large, sparrow-like bird is spotted in the region. Small populations of the corn bunting still exist in eastern Scotland and the Western Isles. The corn bunting may not be the most colourful of birds, but as it often perches conspicuously on wires such as telephone lines or fences when singing, it can be easily spotted It was thought that its fate in the Borders had been sealed after a single calling male was reported by a landowner in the Lamberton area in 2003. However, this month Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) officers - with the help of a local volunteer and landowner - discovered two singing male corn buntings and a presumed female at a site in the eastern Borders. The find has raised hopes that the species may yet see a recovery in the region. The public and farmers in particular, have been asked to keep an eye out for the rare birds, which are easily noted by their distinctive song and behaviour. "The corn bunting may not be the most colourful of birds, but as it often perches conspicuously on wires such as telephone lines or fences when singing, it can be easily spotted," said Lisa Webb of the RSPB. "The song of the corn bunting has been likened to jangling a set of keys, and is quite different to the smaller and more colourful yellowhammer." A recording of the song and images of the bird have been placed on the RSPB's website. sounded for farmland birds 18 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Stooks 'vital' to bird's survival 04 Aug 06 | Highlands and Islands Farmers urged to help rare bird 08 Feb 06 | Humber UK birds 'hit by climate change' 19 Aug 05 | UK SOUTH OF SCOTLAND STORIES Nightclub visit for death inquiry Body discovered in burned out car Road reopening halted by badgers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6703001.stm at Greenland whale plan 29 May 2007, 23:36 GMT 00:36 at Greenland whale plan Environment correspondent, BBC News website, Anchorage, Alaska Greenland wants to include humpbacks in its annual hunt The International Whaling Commission (IWC) annual meeting has seen deadlock on its second day over Greenland's plans to expand its Inuit whale hunt. But proposals from indigenous groups in the US, Caribbean and Russia passed. Subsistence whaling rights are given to groups with traditional whaling culture and a nutritional need for whale meat. On the sidelines, Japan met with anti-whaling nations to try to resolve differences over its plan to include humpbacks in its Antarctic hunt. The plan has caused outrage in Australia and New Zealand, which have healthy whale-watching industries with humpbacks as their star turn. Subsistence (aboriginal) hunting is a relatively uncontroversial issue, with most governments and activist groups supporting the notion that indigenous peoples should be entitled to catch whales on a not-for-profit basis, despite the 21-year global moratorium on commercial hunting. Actress Miranda Richardson supports a total ban Quotas are reviewed every five years, and this meeting is supposed to set allowances for the period 2008-12. But the West Greenland bid proved unusually controversial. It wanted to increase the number of minke whales taken from 175 to 200, and include 10 humpbacks and 2 bowhead whales for the first time. Guide to the Great Whales Greenland Inuit delegate Amalie Jessen said her people had demonstrated a need for 730 tonnes of whale meat each year rather than the current 450 tonnes. "We like to see whales alive as well, but we see hunting them as an important part of our cultural life," she said. Scientists advising the IWC believed there was not enough reliable information available to assess humpback stocks in the target region. "We can only support a quota that's scientifically based," said Netherlands commissioner Giuseppe Raaphorst. "On the scientific basis and the precautionary principle, we cannot accept this proposal." But with pro-whaling nations amassing behind the Greenland bid, a decision was deferred. The other bids, from the Chukchi of north-eastern Russia, Alaskan Eskimos, the Makah tribe of Washington State in the US, and the Beqians of St Vincent and the Grenadines, involved maintaining existing quotas, and passed without problem. The fiercest row currently concerns Japan's plan to add 50 humpback whales to its annual Antarctic hunt, which it conducts in the name of scientific research. Before the meeting started, Japan offered to consider abandoning the humpback element if the anti-whaling bloc could consider its request to allow limited commercial hunting by four coastal communities. The offer was dismissed instantly; but Japanese commissioners met informally with ministers from anti-whaling countries Australia, the UK and New Zealand in an attempt to find a way forward. After the session, New Zealand's conservation minister Chris Carter told BBC News that they had agreed to continue talking, with the future of the IWC one item on which it might be possible to find common ground. However, he said, the Japanese coastal whaling proposal would not be endorsed, while his government's opposition to the humpback hunt remained as implacable as ever. Japanese delegates declined to comment. AND AUDIO NEWS Footage of whales being hunted A proposal for a South Atlantic whale sanctuary is defeated Deadlock at Greenland whale plan Anti-whaling lobby rebuffs Japan Conciliation talk at whaling meet Cultural claim to whale hunting Cruelty and the kitchen Under the skin of whaling science Temples of the whale Did Greens help kill the whale? Guide to the Great Whales Moving whaling debate forward
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6693879.stm ahead crucial for Mars rover 25 May 2007, 21:21 GMT 22:21 ahead crucial for Mars rover Science reporter, BBC News The robotic rover mission is set to be launched in 2013 Talks to resolve the design of Europe's rover mission to Mars are converging on a "best solution for science", a senior space official has told the BBC. The option in question would require an upgrade to the original vision. But observers fear some European Space Agency (Esa) delegates could still baulk at the enormous costs of an enhanced mission. It will test the resolve of member states to avoid the unthinkable - killing off the flagship project. Abandoning the ExoMars mission would be a public relations catastrophe for the space agency, raising serious questions over Europe's space capability. The robotic rover mission is set to be launched to the Red Planet in 2013. The general consensus was positive and recognising the need to have much more science return from the mission Esa ExoMars team member The top-level panel from Esa member states, including the UK, is being asked by agency scientists to approve an upgraded - and much more expensive - design to that originally proposed. It would see ExoMars travel with an orbiter to relay data back to Earth. This would free the mission from reliance on US spacecraft for communications with home, and would allow the rover to wait in orbit for Martian dust storms to subside before landing on the Red Planet. The option would require the whole package to be launched on a bigger, more powerful rocket, meaning the robotic vehicle could also carry additional, or heavier, science instruments to search for life. ExoMars is one stage in an ambitious European programme of planetary exploration - called Aurora - which is geared eventually to include a mission to return samples of Martian soil to Earth. Delegates from Esa member states have been meeting this week in Paris to agree a final configuration so that industrial partners can move ahead on the project. Bruno Gardini, a member of Esa's ExoMars project team, said that "opinion was converging" on the beefed-up mission design. "We are moving in that direction," he told BBC News. "The general consensus was positive and recognising the need to have much more science return from the mission. But taking a decision takes a little bit of time and consultation. "There has of course been discussion on all possible alternatives. But I think at the end, the opinion of the present participants was - I would dare to say - converging because of the scientific return." Delegates will now meet again on 11 June in an attempt to reach formal agreement on the mission's configuration. An important meeting to hammer out the financial details of the proposal is scheduled for later this year. For months, scientific and industrial groups across Europe have been developing a number of concepts in parallel. The Ariane 5 would have the power to launch an upgraded mission The early "baseline option" called for a rover to be launched on a Soyuz-Fregat booster and landed on Mars using bouncing gas bags. In this original configuration, the 650m-euro rover would have the capacity to carry 8kg of instrumentation, including a drill to burrow beneath the Martian soil. A Geophysics/Environment Package (GEP) would also be sent with the rover. This fixed station, once placed on the planet's surface, could sense "Marsquakes" and monitor weather. But the bouncing bags would put tight constraints on the volume of space into which the rover must be stowed. This in turn restricts the maximum mass that can be given over to instruments and makes it impossible to carry a meaningful GEP payload. Discontent was also expressed over intentions to use American orbiting spacecraft at Mars to relay commands and data. If the US were to experience a spacecraft failure - as happened last year - ExoMars could be compromised. Design teams have therefore been considering the enhanced concept that would see the rover launched on a heavy lift Ariane 5 or a Proton rocket. "We need a decision on the technical content of the work, otherwise it is not efficient anymore," said Bruno Gardini. David Parker, from the UK delegation on Esa's Programme Board for Human Spaceflight, Microgravity and Exploration, said: "There are future meetings over the coming weeks and months, to try to find the definite way forward on the ExoMars mission." Of the heavy lift option, he said: "That was Esa's recommendation and was presented to us in real time. Now we have to go back home and reflect and think about it." Some commentators, however, have been worried the extra costs of the beefed-up design - amounting to tens of millions of euros - could force some delegates into turning their backs on the mission. But to abandon ExoMars now would make a mockery of Esa's planetary exploration programme. It would also knock back a generation of scientists who have pinned their hopes on the Aurora roadmap to deliver a mission to bring back Martian soil and rocks for study in laboratories on Earth. Late last year, the launch of ExoMars was pushed back from 2011 to December 2013. With a launch in 2011, ExoMars would have spent two years in a heliocentric orbit before reaching its target. The mission will now make a direct transfer to Mars, which takes less time to get to the Red Planet. But it will now arrive in September 2014, during a period of global dust storms. Without an orbiter, the rover would have to land in the midst of these storms, a risk Esa says it is unwilling to take. moon 'could be key test' Frozen sea may harbour Mars life Hardy bug re-opens Mars debate Water 'flowed recently' on Mars Probe spies landers on Red Planet European Mars launch delayed Rover may get one-way ticket Mars rover takes in crater view Q&A: Nasa's Mars orbiter How to take pictures of Mars Mars Express mission briefing Full in depth report 37th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference European Space Agency, Aurora Programme
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6699463.stm | Scientists find bird flu antibody 29 May 2007, 04:09 GMT 05:09 find bird flu antibody It's hoped human trials of the bird flu antibody could begin soon Antibodies that could protect against bird flu in humans have been isolated by an international team of scientists. The discovery could lead to treatments that complement flu vaccines in the event of a human epidemic of the virus. The H5N1 bird flu virus is estimated to have killed more than 180 people around the world since 2003. Some countries are already stockpiling vaccines for a possible bird flu outbreak in humans, but no one knows how effective they might be. This is because the particular strain of bird flu that might eventually spark a human pandemic is unknown. But scientists working in Switzerland, Vietnam and the United States say they have isolated antibodies that they hope could offer protection against several different strains of the virus simultaneously. Antibodies are used by our immune system to neutralise bacteria and viruses - in this case, the scientists have isolated antibodies that bird flu survivors in Vietnam produced to fight off the disease. Professor Antonio Lanzavecchia, at the Institute for Research in Biomedicine in Switzerland, says the antibodies have already proven effective in the lab and in mice and he is confident that they could be used in humans. "We in a way exploit the immune response of an individual who has been infected and has survived the infection and of course has made antibodies that neutralise these viruses," he said. "And using this technique, we can isolate the cells that make these antibodies so that this antibody can now be reproduced in vitro and eventually massively produced to treat other individuals." The antibodies could be used to protect key workers, such as nurses and doctors, in countries where a bird flu epidemic strikes. The researchers say it could also be used as an emergency antidote in people who have already been infected with bird flu - if administered within a few days. It is hoped human trials could begin shortly. ban ends 'way of life' Japan confirms bird flu outbreak WHO chief issues bird flu warning Vietnam warned on bird flu threat Clues to pandemic bird flu found Watch how the lethal virus has spread Bird flu: Still a threat? Guide to countries' preparations Quick Guide: Bird flu Bird flu in Nigeria Institute for Research in Biomedicine drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6687129.stm suggest dinos could swim 24 May 2007, 13:37 GMT 14:37 suggest dinos could swim The shape of the scratch marks suggested the beast was swimming Ancient footprints have provided compelling evidence that some dinosaurs were able to swim, scientists report. The 15m (50ft) trackway that reveals one animal's underwater odyssey was discovered in the Cameros Basin in Spain, once a vast lake. The S-shaped prints suggest the beast clawed at sediment on the lake floor as it swam in about 3m (10ft) of water. The marks are about 125 million years old, dating to the Early Cretaceous, the team writes in the journal Geology. They were left by a large, bipedal, carnivorous dinosaur. "We came across them about three or four years ago," explained Dr Loic Costeur, a palaeontologist at the University of Nantes, France, and a co-author of the paper. "The Cameros Basin has thousands of walking footprints from diverse dinosaur fauna, but when we saw these it was obvious straightaway that this was a swimming dinosaur." The underwater trackway, which is well-preserved in sandstone, is made up of 12 consecutive prints each consisting of two to three scratch marks. "The footprints are really peculiar in their shape and morphology - they are not at all like walking footprints," Dr Costeur told the BBC News website. "In walking footprints, you can recognise the shape of the foot; but here it is not at all the case: it is sets of grooves on the sediment surface. The marks were made about 125 million years ago "You get the idea that the animals' body was supported by water as it was scratching the sediment." Ripple marks around the track suggested the dinosaur was swimming against a current, attempting to keep a straight path, the team said. Further investigation of the well-preserved track revealed more about the beast's swimming style. "The dinosaur swam with alternating movements of the two hind limbs: a pelvic paddle swimming motion," said Dr Costeur. "It is a swimming style of amplified walking with movements similar to those used by modern bipeds, including aquatic birds." For many years, the question of whether dinosaurs were able to swim remained unanswered. Investigations into dinosaur anatomy and ecology suggested it was possible, but very little hard evidence existed documenting this behaviour. But Dr Costeur described the find as "extremely exciting" and said it provided the first compelling evidence that dinosaurs were able to swim. "The trackway at La Virgen del Campo opens the door to several new areas of research," said Costeur. "New biomechanical modelling will increase our understanding of dinosaur physiology and physical capabilities, as well as our view of the ecological niches in which they lived." reptile fossil examined 06 Jan 04 | Cambridgeshire Giant sea fossil unearthed 30 Dec 02 | Sci/Tech
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6701515.stm cheetahs caught by DNA 29 May 2007, 23:48 GMT 00:48 cheetahs caught by DNA Science and technology reporter, BBC News Infidelity is not common among other big cats The female cheetahs that prowl the Serengeti in Tanzania appear to live up to their name, scientists have shown. DNA analysis of the spotted cats found that they were serial cheaters, with nearly half of their litters made up of cubs from different fathers. Writing in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, the scientists say the infidelity may expose them to disease. However, it could also ensure the genetic diversity of the endangered species, the researchers hypothesise. "If the cubs are genetically more variable it may allow them to adapt and evolve to different circumstances," Dada Gottelli of the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) and one of the scientists on the study told the BBC News website. "If there is a big change in the environment some may be able to cope better." ) are classified as a vulnerable species according to the World Conservation Union (IUCN). The effective breeding population is estimated to be below 10,000 individuals and the species faces threats including habitat loss and poaching. The new research tracked known cheetahs in the Serengeti National Park in north-west Tanzania over nine years. Analysis of DNA collected from the faecal samples of 176 cheetahs showed that infidelity was rife, although uncommon in other big cats. Researchers tracked the cheetahs for nine years. Of 47 litters of cubs, 43% contained cubs from multiple fathers. In some cases, three males were of just one litter. "If anything, this is an underestimate," said Ms Gotelli. "Cheetah cubs suffer high mortality on the first few weeks so it was difficult to get samples from all of them." Female cheetahs are able to successfully mate with multiple males as they produce a new egg each time they mate, a process known as induced ovulation Common in domestic cats and other species such as rabbits, it means that each egg can in theory be fertilised by sperm from a different male. The high incidence of promiscuity among females coupled with the fact that they increase their risk of predation, parasites and disease to mate with multiple males suggests that there must be a benefit to the behaviour. The researchers believe the evolutionary pay-off is increased genetic diversity, allowing some of the cubs to more readily adapt to change. This is good news for conservationists trying to preserve the threatened species as small populations of animals can face problems of inbreeding. However, the duplicitous behaviour may also bring other benefits such as protecting the cubs from marauding males. "Infanticide has not been observed in the wild cheetahs, like it has been in lions and leopards," said Ms Gotelli. "Maybe this is why. "It may create confusion in the males. In that case it's better not to kill any cubs in case they were yours." sparks 'male rivalry' 25 Apr 06 | Health 25 Sep 98 | Sci/Tech Zoological Society of London
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6688649.stm spring 'affecting wildlife' 25 May 2007, 05:08 GMT 06:08 spring 'affecting wildlife' The survey shows some species are appearing earlier than expected A warm spring has brought about the early arrival of some UK wildlife, the first results of the Springwatch 2007 survey suggest. Over the past few months, amateur naturalists have logged more than 24,000 first sightings of six key species of plants and animals. Some, such as the peacock butterfly and frogspawn, have been spotted earlier than expected. The Woodland Trust said it was worried "because the changes are so rapid". See when the wildlife was first spotted Springwatch, now in its third year, is run by the Woodland Trust and the BBC. The first sightings of swifts have not changed by much The survey data is being compiled to build up a picture of the season as it unfolds across the UK so that it can be compared to previous years. As the survey has been running for a limited time, the results cannot be interpreted as definitive guide to how a changing climate is affecting wildlife, but researchers are already examining the data for trends. Recent weather in the UK has been extremely mild, and records show it has been the warmest spring since the Springwatch survey began in 2005. Most computers will open this document automatically, but you may need Adobe Reader Download the reader here Nick Collinson, head of conservation policy at the Woodland Trust, believes the warm conditions may be responsible for some earlier-than-expected sightings. He said: "This has been our earliest Springwatch year, well ahead of the normal time we would have expected to see these events 30 years ago." Members of the public were asked to record the dates they have first seen red-tailed bumblebees, frogspawn, flowering hawthorns, seven-spot ladybirds, peacock butterflies and swifts. Some of the preliminary findings of this year's survey include: Frogspawn spotted on average two weeks earlier than in 2006 and three weeks earlier than the "phenological norm" (an average first-sighting date based on data gathered over the last 30 years). Peacock butterflies sighted on average one month earlier than 2006, two weeks earlier than 2005, and one month earlier than the norm. For swifts, the data is still returning, but initial results suggest the date has stayed much the same as 2006, 2007 and the phenological norm. Mr Collinson was worried about the possible impact of increasingly warm springs. He said: "We are concerned because the change seems to be so rapid. "And we know there is a mismatch of timing, so, for example, when insects would pollinate flowers, the flowers are coming out earlier than the insects are available, and we know this is happening. "It is very difficult to tell what that means, but certainly we know that wildlife is under pressure." SPRINGWATCH: AVERAGE SIGHTINGS ACROSS AND AUDIO NEWS How amateur naturalists have conducted the survey BBC Springwatch: Wetland recovery 23 May 07 | Science/Nature BBC Springwatch: A greener games 22 May 07 | Science/Nature BBC Springwatch: Recovering fish 21 May 07 | Science/Nature Wildlife winces at early spring 25 Mar 05 | UK
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6703679.stm | HSBC in $100m climate initiative 30 May 2007, 23:34 GMT 00:34 in $100m climate initiative More than 400 million people reliant on major rivers are under threat HSBC is setting aside $100m (£50m) for an initiative to tackle climate change. The funding by the UK's largest bank will help charities and environmental groups to research some of the global causes and effects of climate change. The partnership will look at ways to protect the world's most important rivers and identify how cities can respond to environmental threats. HSBC also said it would create "a green taskforce", to ensure climate awareness was central to its own business. HSBC is the latest UK company to pledge changes to the way it operates in the face of calls for big business to do more to prioritise environmental concerns. HSBC is teaming up with climate campaigners the Climate Group, environmental groups the Earthwatch Institute and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI), and the conservation charity WWF in a five-year partnership We believe we can tackle the causes and impacts of climate change HSBC chairman Stephen Green Banking on green gestures? HSBC, which will spend $5m of the $100m on managing the project, said it would enable the four bodies to expand their climate-related research and undertake work in new countries such as China and India. Priorities include conducting research into the impact of climate change on the world's largest forests and improving management of freshwater systems to increase water security. "By working with four of the world's most respected environmental organisations, we believe we can tackle the causes and impacts of climate change," said Stephen Green, HSBC chairman. The Climate Group said its funding would be used to speed up action against global warming in five of the world's most polluted cities - London, New York, Hong Kong, Mumbai and Shanghai. "Many of the solutions lie in cities," said its chief executive Steve Howard. "We have a short period of time left to take action." The partnership is modelled on a previous five-year, HSBC-funded environmental campaign, which ended last year. This $50m initiative helped save 12,000 plant species from extinction, according to the firm. In conjunction with the donation, HSBC has launched an internal plan to educate its workers on the issues of climate change, at an estimated further cost of $8m. An online module about global warming has been launched and is accessible to the firm's 312,000 employees. "Over the next five years HSBC will make responding to climate change central to our business operations and at the heart of the way we work with our clients," said Mr Green. However, the initiative does not mark a change in the bank's lending policies. Mr Green said pulling out of "sensitive" sectors, including mining, chemicals, energy, forestry and energy, "would not be the right decision". The firm declared itself carbon neutral in 2005, mainly by investing in offsetting schemes. HSBC saw its own emissions rise by 23% in 2006, largely due to acquisitions, explained Jon Williams, head of group sustainable development. out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6665205.stm and the UN: A new bid for control? 18 May 2007, 08:05 GMT 09:05 and the UN: A new bid for control? Felix Dodds and Richard Sherman At a recent United Nations debate, the UK argued that the Security Council should take a central role in responding to climate change. But, ask Felix Dodds and Richard Sherman in this week's Green Room, is this yet another way for rich nations to protect their own borders and interests? This UN debate on energy, security and climate... can definitely be seen as a historic event Send us your comments While governments are preoccupied with negotiations on future international action when the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period expires in 2012, a more recent debate held in the UN Security Council elevated the climate struggle to a new level. Central were the weighty questions: is climate change a threat to international peace and security, and, if so, does the Security Council have a role to play in generating intergovernmental consensus on a global response? This UN debate on energy, security and climate, which took place on 17 April, can definitely be seen as a historic event - and might, by some, even be seen as an evolutionary step in the climate debate. However, it also highlighted the continued polarisation surrounding climate change that exists between member states, and failed to conclude with a consensus on climate insecurity. One view, pronounced by the UK's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, supported by EU colleagues, was that the Security Council's mandate to address issues that threaten the international peace and security was indeed broad enough to encompass the impacts of climate change. "What makes wars start?" she asked. Fights over water, changing patterns of rainfall, fights over food production, land use...There are few greater potential threats to our economies too...but also to peace and security itself." However, developing countries strongly objected to the Security Council playing a role in climate change compliance and scrutiny. And the debate, coming at a time when tensions between industrialised and developing countries over the encroachment of the unrepresentative Security Council over the more democratic and representative UN General Assembly, may in fact exacerbate the political divide between rich and poor. For many developing countries, the decision by the UK presidency of the Security Council to hold a debate on climate and energy security held undertones of an inequitable response by the industrialised nations, such as the US and other global powers, most responsible for climate change. Many disagreed with Margaret Beckett They argued that perhaps the rich and powerful were seeking to protect their own interests by utilising an undemocratic process to address a global problem in which the majority of the world's citizens are innocent bystanders. Farukh Amil, the deputy permanent representative for Pakistan and chair of the group of 77 developing countries, made some powerful arguments against the inclusion of climate change in the Security Council. While recognising the importance of the issues for the achievement of sustainable development, developing countries felt the responsibilities to address the climate and security nexus were the responsibility of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. Mr Amil argued that climate change already has a binding multilateral agreement, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), as well as the Kyoto Protocol. "No role was envisaged for the Security Council," he said. Stakeholders and climate activists were equally divided. The conservation group WWF called on the Security Council to initiate a global cooperative energy and climate strategy. Other NGOs, including our organisation Stakeholder Forum, opposed the issue being discussed at the Security Council. We argued that it was wrong as it excluded over 180 countries; and of the council's permanent five members, four are developed countries which one might consider to be interested in securing their energy and climate requirements. The question is not whether climate change is a threat to international peace and security, but more about how and where the world should have a discussion on how to address these issues Send us your comments The Security Council also excludes the input of stakeholders who bring to the table experiences at the local level and case studies of what works and doesn't. There is no question that we are starting to discuss a new paradigm of human and environmental security of which climate and energy security is an important part - but not the only part. Health epidemics, post-conflict reconstruction, nuclear weapons, migration, population growth, unsustainable consumption, poverty and trade are all also part of the discussion we need to look at through this new lens. The question is not whether climate change is a threat to international peace and security, but more about how and where the world should have a discussion on addressing these issues creatively. There are already good examples of how to create global conversations: the Earth Summit processes of the 1990s are one. In 1992, in Rio de Janeiro, the Earth Summit looked at the interface between environment and development; and in 2002, the Johannesburg Earth Summit looked at sustainable development. We are now seeing the emergence of this new paradigm because developed governments have not delivered on their Rio and Johannesburg commitments. Not because the conversation was wrong about what needed to be done - it just wasn't delivered. By 2012, 20 years from Rio, we need another Earth Summit this time on human and environmental security. If we don't, then the agenda of sustainable development will be dictated by the security concerns bringing major impacts on our lives and our democracies. Felix Dodds is executive director of Stakeholder Forum for a Sustainable Future Richard Sherman is a South African Advisor to Stakeholder Forum on issues of global governance The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Will a new UN climate initiative simply serve rich and powerful nations' self-interest? Climate action 'needs devolution' Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6694227.stm 'opposes' G8 climate proposals 26 May 2007, 03:37 GMT 04:37 'opposes' G8 climate proposals Developing economies are at major risk from climate change The US appears to have rejected draft proposals by Germany for G8 members to agree tough measures in greenhouse gas emissions, leaked documents have shown. Wide-ranging US amendments to a draft communique prepared ahead of June's G8 in Germany summit cite a "fundamental opposition" to the proposals. Germany wants all G8 members to agree timetables and targets for major cuts. Greenpeace, who leaked the document, said it showed UK PM Tony Blair failed to persuade the US to alter its stance. In the document, US officials make major changes to the communique. In comments printed in red ink, the US negotiators express disappointment that earlier concerns have not been taken on board. We have tried to 'tread lightly' but there is only so far we can go given our fundamental opposition to the German position US comments on leaked communique The changes strike out entire sentences and significantly reduce the certainty with which the statement addresses climate change. "The US still has serious, fundamental concerns about this draft statement," a red-inked note reads. "The treatment of climate change runs counter to our overall position and crosses 'multiple red lines' in terms of what we simply cannot agree to," it continues. "We have tried to 'tread lightly' but there is only so far we can go given our fundamental opposition to the German position." However, in Washington, senior US lawmakers have written to President Bush expressing their dismay at the administration's position, the AFP news agency reports. Correspondents say the document hints at a looming struggle over the issue of climate change at the G8 summit, to be held on 6-8 June in Heiligendamm, Germany. Chancellor Angela Merkel wants to use Germany's presidency of the G8 to secure a major climate change deal, including: Agreement to slow the rise in average temperatures this century to 2C A cut in global emissions by 50% below 1990 levels by 2050 A rise in energy efficiency in power and transport by 20% by 2020. Greenpeace Director John Sauven described the US position as "criminal". "The US administration is clearly ignoring the global scientific consensus as well the groundswell of concern about climate change in the United States," he said. Mrs Merkel should make it clear the US was isolated on the issue among G8 members, he added. Speaking on 24 May, British Prime Minister Tony Blair suggested the US could be on the verge of altering its climate policy. The US has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which sets out targets for lowering emissions until 2012. "I can't think that there's going to be many people running for presidential office next time round in the US who aren't going to have climate change in their programme," said Mr Blair. "I think it is possible that we will see action - and at least the beginnings of that action at the G8 - I hope so. That's what I'm arguing for." AND AUDIO NEWS World leaders at the 2006 G8 summit Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6706607.stm for warbler population 31 May 2007, 02:44 GMT 03:44 for warbler population Restoring heathlands is vital to the warblers' recovery, say the RSPB A vulnerable bird is experiencing an extraordinary population revival in the UK, RSPB figures have indicated. The latest survey of Dartford warblers shows that numbers have soared by 70% since the last count in 1994. The bird is vulnerable to changes in climate and two harsh winters left just 11 pairs of the bird in 1963. It has returned to Wales, the Midlands and East Anglia and now there are more than 3,000 pairs - the highest tally for more than 40 years. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds says the recent rise in numbers - to an estimated 3,208 pairs from 1,890 in 1994 - is due both to milder winters and improvements in the conservation of heathland habitats. But campaigners say more work is needed to protect and restore heathlands in order to cement the warbler's recovery. The warbler has been returning to its former ranges "This survey is fantastic news for a very vulnerable bird, particularly because it has moved to higher ground not used by Dartford warblers for many years," said Simon Wotton, research biologist at the RSPB. "Warmer winters mean the birds are likely to push even further north but they can only do that if there are heathland sites available, which are protected from development. "If the government is to help wildlife adapt to climate change it should be assigning more land for the creation of habitats to help birds like these." But the bird remains vulnerable in some areas of its range and, on the Thames Basin heaths in Berkshire, Hampshire and Surrey, numbers fell by 40% from 2005 to 2006. The reasons for this remain unclear. The RSPB said the losses emphasised the importance of protection and management of the warbler's existing strongholds. It says the creation of new heathland sites is vital to help Dartford warblers expand their range. The Dartford warbler survey was a joint effort between the RSPB, Natural England, Forestry Commission England and The British Trust for Ornithology. 'still at risk from homes' 27 Feb 07 | England Plea to save heaths from housing 21 Nov 06 | England Mysterious decline of heath birds 09 Aug 06 | Devon
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6694251.stm | Organic move to cut food flights 26 May 2007, 04:35 GMT 05:35 move to cut food flights The Soil Association wants food to travel shorter distances Food flown into the UK may be stripped of organic status in a move being considered by the Soil Association. The organisation, which certifies which foods are organic, says it is looking at a number of proposals because of concern about greenhouse gas emissions. It will outline a series of options, including an outright ban, in a consultation document next week. Other proposals include labels showing a product's country of origin as well as carbon offsetting schemes. Flying produce into Britain from abroad is the fastest growing form of food transport. Organic food grown in this country is taken to the supermarket by horse and cart I suppose? Send us your comments And the Soil Association says highly perishable or out-of-season produce make up the bulk of air-freighted organic produce. But due to growing demands to cut the environmental impact of food distribution, the organisation is now considering five options to reduce the carbon footprint of air-freighted food. These include a campaign to partially or fully deny food imported into the UK by air the right to label itself organic and comprehensive labelling showing a product's country of origin as well as the air miles it has travelled. However, the Soil Association says that air transport can help developing countries with poor infrastructure to get their goods to markets. And any decision would have to take into account the impact on farmers in the developing world, it added. A snap survey of the major supermarkets by the BBC's Breakfast programme found some organic versions of seasonal fruit and vegetables had been imported from as far away as Thailand and Argentina. But supermarkets say they stock local produce whenever possible. AND AUDIO NEWS A Soil Association spokesman explains the proposals Organic food imports under fire 26 Jan 07 | Business Food miles don't go the distance 16 Mar 06 | Science/Nature Local food 'greener than organic' 02 Mar 05 | Science/Nature Supermarkets defend food sourcing 03 Mar 05 | Business in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:11 GMT 17:11 UK International Whaling Commission passes a resolution condemning Japan's Antarctic whale hunt. Whale sanctuary plan defeated Cruelty and the kitchen Did Greens help kill the whale? great apes are facing an "inevitable crisis" arising from climate change, a leading conservationist warns. President George W Bush outlines a new plan to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. Recovery for warbler population Sightings hope for rare farm bird HSBC in $100m climate initiative Irish eagle chick is first in century Cheating cheetahs caught by DNA ALSO IN THE NEWS Cows in New Zealand produce their own natural skimmed milk Does spending $100m on climate change make a bank green? Whale of a time Pro and anti-whalers have their say The British telescope being built on a mountaintop in Chile VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Actors' support for total whaling ban Campaign to axe plastic bags Bush calls for climate action Watch device translates words More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet Scientists find bird flu antibody Days ahead crucial for Mars rover UK 'must pay more for emissions' Planet hunters spy distant haul Tracks suggest dinos could swim Deadlock at Greenland whale plan US 'rejects' G8 climate proposals Organic move to cut food flights Warm spring 'affecting wildlife' Blair: US may back carbon deal Environmental opinion and debate Climate control through the UN Cheating cheetahs caught by DNA Planet hunters spy distant haul 'Living plugs' smooth ant journey How X-ray technology is revolutionising patient care Croatia trains honey bees to sniff out landmines From outer space to the atom's inner workings ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6690191.stm | Blair: US may back carbon deal 25 May 2007, 00:58 GMT 01:58 US may back carbon deal Germany has made climate a priority for the G8 presidency The US may be willing to back an agreement at next month's G8 summit on cutting carbon dioxide emissions, Tony Blair has said on BBC TV. Up to now, the Bush administration has championed voluntary agreements as an alternative to imposing binding caps. Germany has made climate change a priority for its G8 presidency. The prime minister said awareness of the issue among Americans was growing and it was possible the US will sign up to "at least the beginnings" of action. Last September, California became the first US state to set targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Speaking on the BBC's Newsnight programme, Mr Blair was asked how he was going to persuade President George W Bush to agree to national impose limits on CO2. "You've got several of the states now doing it," Mr Blair said. For the first time, at least the Americans are in this "I can't think that there's going to be many people running for presidential office next time round in the US who aren't going to have climate change in their programme." He added: "I think it is possible that we will see action - and at least the beginnings of that action at the G8 - I hope so. That's what I'm arguing for." Mr Blair's comments on Newsnight came after the G8 countries, together with China, India, Mexico, Brazil and South Africa, have been holding talks on emissions. "For the first time, at least the Americans are in this G8 plus 5 process," Mr Blair said. But only last week a UN-hosted meeting ended with the US indicating it was unlikely to take part in negotiations at the end of this year on a global agreement to cut emissions. And according to documents seen by the BBC, the US is trying to block sections of a draft agreement on climate change prepared for the G8 summit. Washington is said to object to the targets to keep the global temperature rise below 2C this century and halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. AND AUDIO NEWS Tony Blair's Newsnight interview Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6689541.stm the whaling debate forward 25 May 2007, 09:46 GMT 10:46 the whaling debate forward By the Rt Hon Sir Geoffrey Palmer The debate over commercial whaling is brought to the table once again at the International Whaling Commission's annual meeting. But, Geoffrey Palmer argues in this week's Green Room, there may be ways to avoid the usual stalemate. It is devoutly to be hoped that light rather than heat emerges from that discussion Send us your comments Guide to the Great Whales Since the commercial whaling moratorium went into effect in 1986, more than 29,000 whales have been killed under objection and special permit whaling. The Japanese government issues special permits, as it is able to do under the whaling convention, allowing hunting for scientific research; Norway and Iceland use an International Whaling Commission (IWC) regulation allowing exemptions from the moratorium. For nearly 15 years the IWC annual meetings have been dominated by discussions on how to devise a scheme that allows commercial whaling to resume but properly protects the stocks. A 75% majority is required in order for commercial whaling to resume under the whaling convention. But at present, the IWC member nations are divided over this issue. One block of nations wishes to see commercial whaling resume even if those nations do not engage in it. Another block does not want to see commercial whaling resume under any circumstances. A middle group wants a compromise to be reached. Debate has been highly divisive and anything but diplomatic. No agreement has been reached. This debate has now become so intense that efforts are being made to cast around for solutions. The Pew Charitable Trusts, with the support of the United Nations Environment Programme (Unep), sponsored a meeting at the UN in April, in New York, entitled Symposium on the State of the Conservation of Whales in the 21st Century, which I chaired. The meeting had representation from around the world and had about equal numbers of people with IWC experience, NGO experience, and environmental experience but not with whales. This mix did turn out to produce new perspectives. For two days, participants in the conference looked at four main themes: the state of whale stocks and the science relating to them developments in international ocean law diplomatic means that may be available to address the impasse suggestions for the future What emerged from these deliberations was a menu of options that may offer a way forward. One block of nations wishes to see commercial whaling resume No coalition of views around any single option emerged, but new suggestions were made that had not been heard before. Many are worthy of further exploration. There was a view that the current arrangements, contentious as they are, may be the best available means of protecting whales. According to that view, present policy settings should be maintained and efforts should be made to continue a further conservation agenda within the IWC. Indeed, throughout the conference, there were no suggestions that the IWC could be dispensed with, although there were many ideas on how to cure its afflictions. Pro-conservation countries consult with their pro-conservation NGOs One of these was that a number of changes should be made to the whaling convention in order to remove or restrict the use of scientific whaling. Another was to have better enforcement of the convention with a new dispute settlement provision and no capacity to make reservations to the new rules or opt out. There were suggestions that commercial whaling should resume on a limited basis, provided that scientific whaling is abandoned and there is a ban on the international trade in whale meat. Whaling in sanctuaries (large areas where whales are protected by a decision of the International Whaling Commission, such as the Southern Seas) would have to be phased out as well. It was widely agreed that there needed to be a more diplomatic atmosphere within the IWC. One complexity of whaling politics is that - although it is governments who make decisions - they need to take into account the feelings of public opinion, which are heavily politically and emotionally charged on both sides. For every important step, pro-conservation countries consult with their pro-conservation NGOs. So do the whaling countries with the representatives of their pro-whaling interests. There were also propositions that attempts be made to settle the problems by a "higher" authority such as an independent world commission, a ministerial summit held on the 60th anniversary of the IWC, or a mutually agreed binding mediation or arbitration procedure. Others thought an international diplomatic conference under the auspices of the UN should be convened, or an independent group of eminent persons be assembled to make recommendations. Another idea was that the whaling issue should be integrated into broader oceans, biodiversity and species protection programmes. There has to be a better way forward There were thoughts that research be conducted into the economics of whaling; whale watching means that whales are worth more alive than dead. The question of subsidies for whaling should also be explored. One strong suggestion was that new approaches to conflict management within the IWC should be explored. This case was presented in a most compelling fashion. Only time will tell whether solutions will emerge to what has become an increasingly pressing diplomatic problem. The future of the IWC will be debated as a separate agenda item for the first time this year at the annual meeting in Anchorage, Alaska. It will be a good opportunity to test the ideas that arose in this meeting. I am eager to hear the response from all countries. It is devoutly to be hoped that light rather than heat emerges from that discussion. So many members of the IWC are unhappy with the current situation that there has to be a better way forward. Sir Geoffrey was Prime Minister of New Zealand from 1989-1990. He is the president of the Law Commission in New Zealand and that country's Commissioner to the IWC. The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website. series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Will a new UN climate initiative simply serve rich and powerful nations' self-interest? Climate action 'needs devolution' Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans New York Pew Symposium
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6703655.stm Ireland | Irish eagle chick is first in century 30 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 eagle chick is first in century The golden eagle chick is five weeks old A wild golden eagle has been hatched in Ireland for the first time in nearly a century. Two chicks were hatched in a remote area of the Glenveagh National Park in County Donegal but one of the young birds died after five days. There will be a further nervous wait to see if the remaining chick can continue to grow and fledge in late July. Golden eagles last bred in Glenveagh back in 1910. The bird had become extinct in Ireland but was reintroduced at Glenveagh six years ago in an effort to reintroduce the bird to Ireland. The new chick, whose father is from Skye and mother from Sutherland, is now just five weeks old. Project manager for the Golden Eagle Trust Lorcan O'Toole said he was delighted at the news. "We think it is a girl but we are not quite sure. It is still relatively small," he explained. "Eagle chicks are quite vulnerable but she will quickly grow." The trust has been monitoring the birds in Donegal for the last five or six years. Eggs are normally laid around mid March and take six weeks to hatch. This first wild golden eagle is described by conservationists as a milestone in efforts to reverse the decline of native animal and plant species in Ireland. "Emotionally we are just delighted to have such a wild creature breeding in Ireland once again," Mr O'Toole said. "Golden eagles would have been quite a common sight, 300 or 400 years ago. But they have had a pretty poor history for the last two to three centuries. "We just feel that it is a good omen and it bodes well for the future where we can all maybe show more awareness of our landscape." The birds were recently reintroduced to Ireland from Scotland with the assistance of various enthusiasts. In Scotland, under wise management, there are still 420 pairs of golden eagles. But the eagles have died out in Wales and the few remaining English eagles can only be found in the Lake District. "Maybe if there is a bit more tolerance of wildlife, we can see some of these species return to their former haunts," Mr O'Toole said. AND AUDIO NEWS The golden eagle chick nesting TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6699893.stm hunters spy distant haul 29 May 2007, 11:43 GMT 12:43 hunters spy distant haul The ice-giant Gliese 436 is 30 light years from Earth A haul of 28 new planets beyond our solar system has been detected by the world's most prolific planet hunters. The finds were among 37 objects seen orbiting distant stars by a US and Anglo-Australian team in the last year. Other objects reported by the group, at an American Astronomical Society meeting in Honolulu, included five failed stars, known as brown dwarfs. The finds increase the total number of known exoplanets to 236, more than half of which were discovered by the team. "The more we look, the more we find planets," said Professor Tinney of the University of New South Wales, head of the Australian part of the Anglo-Australian Planet Search. Among the finds were at least four multiple-planetary systems. All of the planets were so-called gas giants, similar to Jupiter, with no solid surface. "Something like 10 to 15% of stars host gas giants," said Professor Tinney. "A larger fraction of stars may host planets too small for us to detect." These could include Earth-sized objects, which could harbour life. The smallest exoplanet discovered orbits Gliese 581 Earlier this year, scientists using the European Southern Observatory (ESO) 3.6m Telescope in Chile discovered the smallest exoplanet - as astronomers call planets that orbit a star other than the Sun - yet. The "super-Earth" orbited the faint star Gliese 581, 20.5 light-years away in the constellation Libra. Its radius was just 1.5 times that of the Earth. Intriguingly, the planet could have liquid water on its surface, a key ingredient of life. It was discovered using a sensitive instrument that can measure tiny changes in the velocity of a star as it experiences the gravitational tug of a nearby planet. It was the same method used to detect the latest batch of extra solar planets. According to Dr Jason Wright of the University of California, Berkeley, one of the members of the US California and Carnegie Planet Search, the technique has become more sophisticated, improving detection rates dramatically. "We're just now getting to the point where, if we were observing our own Solar System from afar, we would be seeing Jupiter," he said. These techniques allow scientists to detect changes in the motion of stars as small as one metre per second. Astronomers are stuck with such indirect methods of detection because current telescope technology struggles to image very distant and faint objects - especially when they orbit close to the glare of a star. The discovery of the 28 new planets has given astronomers new targets to analyse in more detail. For example, a planet discovered two years ago has already yielded a mass of "extraordinarily rich" information, according to Professor Geoff Marcy of the University of California, Berkeley. Circling the star Gliese 436, 30 light years from Earth, was an ice-giant planet that was calculated by Swiss and Belgian scientists to be at least 22 Earth masses, slightly larger than the mass of Neptune. Their studies had also revealed its density. "It must be 50% rock and about 50% water, with perhaps small amounts of hydrogen and helium," said Professor Marcy. "This planet has the interior structure of a hybrid super-Earth/Neptune, with a rocky core surrounded by a significant amount of water compressed into solid form at high pressures and temperatures." However, the planet is not thought to be capable of supporting life. telescope spots new planet 03 May 07 | Science/Nature New 'super-Earth' found in space 25 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Planet shine 'to aid life search' 24 May 06 | Science/Nature Planet hunters find 'super-Earth' 14 Mar 06 | Science/Nature Small planets seen by astronomers 31 Aug 04 | Science/Nature Smallest Earth-like planet found 25 Jan 06 | Science/Nature California and Carnegie Planet Search
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6704549.stm 30 May 2007, 15:03 GMT 16:03 Leakey says climate change is putting great ape species at risk Great apes are facing an "inevitable crisis" arising from climate change, a leading conservationist has warned. Dr Richard Leakey said that growing pressure to switch from fossil fuels to biofuels could result in further destruction of the animals' habitats. The chair of WildlifeDirect called for immediate action and proposed financial incentives to save forests from destruction as one possible solution. He said: "Climate change will undoubtedly impact everything we know." The implications for biodiversity are there for all to see The great apes - gorillas, chimps, bonobos and orangutans - are already under threat from habitat destruction, poaching, logging and disease. The Great Apes Survival Project (Grasp), a United Nations Environment Programme (Unep) initiative, has warned that great apes are at risk of imminent extinction unless drastic action is taken. In advance of a talk at the UK's Royal Geographical Society, Dr Leakey told journalists that climate threats now had to be added to the mix. The former director of the Kenyan Wildlife Service said: "I am concerned about the pressures on the land as a result of changes to the climate, but also the pressures on the land in terms of people's reaction to climate change and the shift away from fossil fuels to biofuels." The great apes: Status check He said that "great swathes" of forest had already been destroyed in South Asia to make way for palm oil plantations, and this had had a dramatic impact on orangutans, which currently number 50,000. Palm oil is used in vegetable oil, soaps, shampoos, industrial substances, but it has also been proposed as an alternative to fossil fuel. Dr Leakey said the growing pressure to turn to biofuels such as palm oil could place the great apes' habitat in further peril. He added: "People shrug their shoulders and say what are poor countries to do if they cannot exploit their natural resources, and I can understand this, but it is not sustainable the way it is going." There is also evidence that deforestation would further drive climate change itself by raising the amount of greenhouse gas carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, Dr Leakey said. Dr Leakey suggested "biodiversity credits" could be a possible solution. "Being paid for not cutting down indigenous forests and getting credit for that is a further step that builds on the idea of getting paid for planting new forests," he explained. "It does seem that we cannot stop development, but it does also seem that perhaps we can stop development where critical species are threatened, and perhaps there could be a price added to that." Dr Leakey is a prominent conservationist in Kenya He said that there could be creative ways to solve the problems that climate change could bring, but added that it was crucial that action was taken now. Dr Leakey told journalists: "Could the great apes go because of climate change? Yes. Possibly not within our lifetime, but what about in 100 or 200 years? "Climate change is measurable and is happening at rate that is almost unprecedented from what we know in previous history, and the implications for biodiversity are there for all to see." Richard Leakey is a palaeo-anthropologist, responsible for extensive fossil finds related to human evolution, and renowned Kenyan conservationist. His parents, Louis and Mary Leakey, were prominent palaeontologists, finding and excavating key sites around Africa. Green energy or grim reaper? 22 Sep 06 | Science/Nature Climate risk 'to million species' 07 Jan 04 | Science/Nature Genes record orangutans' decline 24 Jan 06 | Science/Nature Orangutans 'may die out by 2025' 12 Jan 04 | Science/Nature Climate fear for African elephant 07 May 05 | Science/Nature Declaration signed on great apes 12 Sep 05 | Science/Nature Apes 'extinct in a generation' 01 Sep 05 | Science/Nature Profile: Dr Richard Leakey 15 May 01 | Africa
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6699305.stm | UK 'must pay more for emissions' 28 May 2007, 23:13 GMT 00:13 UK 'must pay more for emissions' The UK must pay more for the damage it does, Oxfam says The UK must donate more money to poorer countries to help them cope with climate change, according to a charity. Oxfam said Britain had pledged £20m in "adaptation funds" - but needed to pay a further £1.2bn. They reached the figure by combining the amount of emissions a country produces with its ability to pay. The government said it was spending "more money than ever" to lift people out of poverty and make them less vulnerable to climate change. In the run-up to next month's G8 summit in Germany, Oxfam warned that £25bin was needed to fund projects in poor countries. But the world's richest nations have so far pledged only £90m in total, the charity said. The UK has pledged at least £75 million to support adaptation directly Its report concluded developed countries should foot 80% of the bill for poorer countries to adapt. Oxfam's Kate Raworth said: "Rich countries are already making huge investments at home to adapt to climate change - so they know the scale of the problem. "But they are stalling when it comes to providing money for poorer countries to do the same." She said developing countries "cannot and should not be expected to foot the bill for the impact of rich countries' emissions". The UK is already the world's biggest contributor to adaptation projects. But the charity said the UK should pay 5% of the £25bn needed. A spokesman for the Department for International Development (DfID) the UK was "at the forefront of supporting poor countries adapt". "The UK has pledged at least £75m to support adaptation directly. "For example, at the grassroots level we are investing in schemes such as safer flood resistant housing for thousands of people in Bangladesh." He said "more work needs to be done" to work out exactly how rich nations help poorer ones to adapt to climate change. plea to Blair over Africa 11 Mar 07 | UK Stars donate to Darfur aid sale 24 Apr 07 | Entertainment Department for International Development anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/south_of_scotland/6704091.stm | South of Scotland | Sightings hope for rare farm bird 30 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 UK hope for rare farm bird The corn bunting is thought to have returned to the Borders - picture by Tom Marshall A small group of rare farmland birds has been found in the Borders - years after conservationists believed that just one of them remained in the area. The corn bunting - known as the "fat bird of the barley" - was once a common sight across Scotland and the UK. In recent decades, however, its numbers had fallen due to changes in traditional farming practices. Conservationists have urged the public to call them if the large, sparrow-like bird is spotted in the region. Small populations of the corn bunting still exist in eastern Scotland and the Western Isles. The corn bunting may not be the most colourful of birds, but as it often perches conspicuously on wires such as telephone lines or fences when singing, it can be easily spotted It was thought that its fate in the Borders had been sealed after a single calling male was reported by a landowner in the Lamberton area in 2003. However, this month Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) officers - with the help of a local volunteer and landowner - discovered two singing male corn buntings and a presumed female at a site in the eastern Borders. The find has raised hopes that the species may yet see a recovery in the region. The public and farmers in particular, have been asked to keep an eye out for the rare birds, which are easily noted by their distinctive song and behaviour. "The corn bunting may not be the most colourful of birds, but as it often perches conspicuously on wires such as telephone lines or fences when singing, it can be easily spotted," said Lisa Webb of the RSPB. "The song of the corn bunting has been likened to jangling a set of keys, and is quite different to the smaller and more colourful yellowhammer." A recording of the song and images of the bird have been placed on the RSPB's website. sounded for farmland birds 18 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Stooks 'vital' to bird's survival 04 Aug 06 | Highlands and Islands Farmers urged to help rare bird 08 Feb 06 | Humber UK birds 'hit by climate change' 19 Aug 05 | UK SOUTH OF SCOTLAND STORIES Nightclub visit for death inquiry Body discovered in burned out car Road reopening halted by badgers Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6703001.stm | Deadlock at Greenland whale plan 29 May 2007, 23:36 GMT 00:36 UK at Greenland whale plan Environment correspondent, BBC News website, Anchorage, Alaska Greenland wants to include humpbacks in its annual hunt The International Whaling Commission (IWC) annual meeting has seen deadlock on its second day over Greenland's plans to expand its Inuit whale hunt. But proposals from indigenous groups in the US, Caribbean and Russia passed. Subsistence whaling rights are given to groups with traditional whaling culture and a nutritional need for whale meat. On the sidelines, Japan met with anti-whaling nations to try to resolve differences over its plan to include humpbacks in its Antarctic hunt. The plan has caused outrage in Australia and New Zealand, which have healthy whale-watching industries with humpbacks as their star turn. Subsistence (aboriginal) hunting is a relatively uncontroversial issue, with most governments and activist groups supporting the notion that indigenous peoples should be entitled to catch whales on a not-for-profit basis, despite the 21-year global moratorium on commercial hunting. Actress Miranda Richardson supports a total ban Quotas are reviewed every five years, and this meeting is supposed to set allowances for the period 2008-12. But the West Greenland bid proved unusually controversial. It wanted to increase the number of minke whales taken from 175 to 200, and include 10 humpbacks and 2 bowhead whales for the first time. Guide to the Great Whales Greenland Inuit delegate Amalie Jessen said her people had demonstrated a need for 730 tonnes of whale meat each year rather than the current 450 tonnes. "We like to see whales alive as well, but we see hunting them as an important part of our cultural life," she said. Scientists advising the IWC believed there was not enough reliable information available to assess humpback stocks in the target region. "We can only support a quota that's scientifically based," said Netherlands commissioner Giuseppe Raaphorst. "On the scientific basis and the precautionary principle, we cannot accept this proposal." But with pro-whaling nations amassing behind the Greenland bid, a decision was deferred. The other bids, from the Chukchi of north-eastern Russia, Alaskan Eskimos, the Makah tribe of Washington State in the US, and the Beqians of St Vincent and the Grenadines, involved maintaining existing quotas, and passed without problem. The fiercest row currently concerns Japan's plan to add 50 humpback whales to its annual Antarctic hunt, which it conducts in the name of scientific research. Before the meeting started, Japan offered to consider abandoning the humpback element if the anti-whaling bloc could consider its request to allow limited commercial hunting by four coastal communities. The offer was dismissed instantly; but Japanese commissioners met informally with ministers from anti-whaling countries Australia, the UK and New Zealand in an attempt to find a way forward. After the session, New Zealand's conservation minister Chris Carter told BBC News that they had agreed to continue talking, with the future of the IWC one item on which it might be possible to find common ground. However, he said, the Japanese coastal whaling proposal would not be endorsed, while his government's opposition to the humpback hunt remained as implacable as ever. Japanese delegates declined to comment. AND AUDIO NEWS Footage of whales being hunted A proposal for a South Atlantic whale sanctuary is defeated Deadlock at Greenland whale plan Anti-whaling lobby rebuffs Japan Conciliation talk at whaling meet Cultural claim to whale hunting Cruelty and the kitchen Under the skin of whaling science Temples of the whale Did Greens help kill the whale? Guide to the Great Whales Moving whaling debate forward meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6693879.stm | Days ahead crucial for Mars rover 25 May 2007, 21:21 GMT 22:21 UK ahead crucial for Mars rover Science reporter, BBC News The robotic rover mission is set to be launched in 2013 Talks to resolve the design of Europe's rover mission to Mars are converging on a "best solution for science", a senior space official has told the BBC. The option in question would require an upgrade to the original vision. But observers fear some European Space Agency (Esa) delegates could still baulk at the enormous costs of an enhanced mission. It will test the resolve of member states to avoid the unthinkable - killing off the flagship project. Abandoning the ExoMars mission would be a public relations catastrophe for the space agency, raising serious questions over Europe's space capability. The robotic rover mission is set to be launched to the Red Planet in 2013. The general consensus was positive and recognising the need to have much more science return from the mission Esa ExoMars team member The top-level panel from Esa member states, including the UK, is being asked by agency scientists to approve an upgraded - and much more expensive - design to that originally proposed. It would see ExoMars travel with an orbiter to relay data back to Earth. This would free the mission from reliance on US spacecraft for communications with home, and would allow the rover to wait in orbit for Martian dust storms to subside before landing on the Red Planet. The option would require the whole package to be launched on a bigger, more powerful rocket, meaning the robotic vehicle could also carry additional, or heavier, science instruments to search for life. ExoMars is one stage in an ambitious European programme of planetary exploration - called Aurora - which is geared eventually to include a mission to return samples of Martian soil to Earth. Delegates from Esa member states have been meeting this week in Paris to agree a final configuration so that industrial partners can move ahead on the project. Bruno Gardini, a member of Esa's ExoMars project team, said that "opinion was converging" on the beefed-up mission design. "We are moving in that direction," he told BBC News. "The general consensus was positive and recognising the need to have much more science return from the mission. But taking a decision takes a little bit of time and consultation. "There has of course been discussion on all possible alternatives. But I think at the end, the opinion of the present participants was - I would dare to say - converging because of the scientific return." Delegates will now meet again on 11 June in an attempt to reach formal agreement on the mission's configuration. An important meeting to hammer out the financial details of the proposal is scheduled for later this year. For months, scientific and industrial groups across Europe have been developing a number of concepts in parallel. The Ariane 5 would have the power to launch an upgraded mission The early "baseline option" called for a rover to be launched on a Soyuz-Fregat booster and landed on Mars using bouncing gas bags. In this original configuration, the 650m-euro rover would have the capacity to carry 8kg of instrumentation, including a drill to burrow beneath the Martian soil. A Geophysics/Environment Package (GEP) would also be sent with the rover. This fixed station, once placed on the planet's surface, could sense "Marsquakes" and monitor weather. But the bouncing bags would put tight constraints on the volume of space into which the rover must be stowed. This in turn restricts the maximum mass that can be given over to instruments and makes it impossible to carry a meaningful GEP payload. Discontent was also expressed over intentions to use American orbiting spacecraft at Mars to relay commands and data. If the US were to experience a spacecraft failure - as happened last year - ExoMars could be compromised. Design teams have therefore been considering the enhanced concept that would see the rover launched on a heavy lift Ariane 5 or a Proton rocket. "We need a decision on the technical content of the work, otherwise it is not efficient anymore," said Bruno Gardini. David Parker, from the UK delegation on Esa's Programme Board for Human Spaceflight, Microgravity and Exploration, said: "There are future meetings over the coming weeks and months, to try to find the definite way forward on the ExoMars mission." Of the heavy lift option, he said: "That was Esa's recommendation and was presented to us in real time. Now we have to go back home and reflect and think about it." Some commentators, however, have been worried the extra costs of the beefed-up design - amounting to tens of millions of euros - could force some delegates into turning their backs on the mission. But to abandon ExoMars now would make a mockery of Esa's planetary exploration programme. It would also knock back a generation of scientists who have pinned their hopes on the Aurora roadmap to deliver a mission to bring back Martian soil and rocks for study in laboratories on Earth. Late last year, the launch of ExoMars was pushed back from 2011 to December 2013. With a launch in 2011, ExoMars would have spent two years in a heliocentric orbit before reaching its target. The mission will now make a direct transfer to Mars, which takes less time to get to the Red Planet. But it will now arrive in September 2014, during a period of global dust storms. Without an orbiter, the rover would have to land in the midst of these storms, a risk Esa says it is unwilling to take. moon 'could be key test' Frozen sea may harbour Mars life Hardy bug re-opens Mars debate Water 'flowed recently' on Mars Probe spies landers on Red Planet European Mars launch delayed Rover may get one-way ticket Mars rover takes in crater view Q&A: Nasa's Mars orbiter How to take pictures of Mars Mars Express mission briefing Full in depth report 37th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference European Space Agency, Aurora Programme meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6699463.stm | Scientists find bird flu antibody 29 May 2007, 04:09 GMT 05:09 UK find bird flu antibody It's hoped human trials of the bird flu antibody could begin soon Antibodies that could protect against bird flu in humans have been isolated by an international team of scientists. The discovery could lead to treatments that complement flu vaccines in the event of a human epidemic of the virus. The H5N1 bird flu virus is estimated to have killed more than 180 people around the world since 2003. Some countries are already stockpiling vaccines for a possible bird flu outbreak in humans, but no one knows how effective they might be. This is because the particular strain of bird flu that might eventually spark a human pandemic is unknown. But scientists working in Switzerland, Vietnam and the United States say they have isolated antibodies that they hope could offer protection against several different strains of the virus simultaneously. Antibodies are used by our immune system to neutralise bacteria and viruses - in this case, the scientists have isolated antibodies that bird flu survivors in Vietnam produced to fight off the disease. Professor Antonio Lanzavecchia, at the Institute for Research in Biomedicine in Switzerland, says the antibodies have already proven effective in the lab and in mice and he is confident that they could be used in humans. "We in a way exploit the immune response of an individual who has been infected and has survived the infection and of course has made antibodies that neutralise these viruses," he said. "And using this technique, we can isolate the cells that make these antibodies so that this antibody can now be reproduced in vitro and eventually massively produced to treat other individuals." The antibodies could be used to protect key workers, such as nurses and doctors, in countries where a bird flu epidemic strikes. The researchers say it could also be used as an emergency antidote in people who have already been infected with bird flu - if administered within a few days. It is hoped human trials could begin shortly. ban ends 'way of life' Japan confirms bird flu outbreak WHO chief issues bird flu warning Vietnam warned on bird flu threat Clues to pandemic bird flu found Watch how the lethal virus has spread Bird flu: Still a threat? Guide to countries' preparations Quick Guide: Bird flu Bird flu in Nigeria Institute for Research in Biomedicine drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6687129.stm | Tracks suggest dinos could swim 24 May 2007, 13:37 GMT 14:37 UK suggest dinos could swim The shape of the scratch marks suggested the beast was swimming Ancient footprints have provided compelling evidence that some dinosaurs were able to swim, scientists report. The 15m (50ft) trackway that reveals one animal's underwater odyssey was discovered in the Cameros Basin in Spain, once a vast lake. The S-shaped prints suggest the beast clawed at sediment on the lake floor as it swam in about 3m (10ft) of water. The marks are about 125 million years old, dating to the Early Cretaceous, the team writes in the journal Geology. They were left by a large, bipedal, carnivorous dinosaur. "We came across them about three or four years ago," explained Dr Loic Costeur, a palaeontologist at the University of Nantes, France, and a co-author of the paper. "The Cameros Basin has thousands of walking footprints from diverse dinosaur fauna, but when we saw these it was obvious straightaway that this was a swimming dinosaur." The underwater trackway, which is well-preserved in sandstone, is made up of 12 consecutive prints each consisting of two to three scratch marks. "The footprints are really peculiar in their shape and morphology - they are not at all like walking footprints," Dr Costeur told the BBC News website. "In walking footprints, you can recognise the shape of the foot; but here it is not at all the case: it is sets of grooves on the sediment surface. The marks were made about 125 million years ago "You get the idea that the animals' body was supported by water as it was scratching the sediment." Ripple marks around the track suggested the dinosaur was swimming against a current, attempting to keep a straight path, the team said. Further investigation of the well-preserved track revealed more about the beast's swimming style. "The dinosaur swam with alternating movements of the two hind limbs: a pelvic paddle swimming motion," said Dr Costeur. "It is a swimming style of amplified walking with movements similar to those used by modern bipeds, including aquatic birds." For many years, the question of whether dinosaurs were able to swim remained unanswered. Investigations into dinosaur anatomy and ecology suggested it was possible, but very little hard evidence existed documenting this behaviour. But Dr Costeur described the find as "extremely exciting" and said it provided the first compelling evidence that dinosaurs were able to swim. "The trackway at La Virgen del Campo opens the door to several new areas of research," said Costeur. "New biomechanical modelling will increase our understanding of dinosaur physiology and physical capabilities, as well as our view of the ecological niches in which they lived." reptile fossil examined 06 Jan 04 | Cambridgeshire Giant sea fossil unearthed 30 Dec 02 | Sci/Tech meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6701515.stm | Cheating cheetahs caught by DNA 29 May 2007, 23:48 GMT 00:48 UK cheetahs caught by DNA Science and technology reporter, BBC News Infidelity is not common among other big cats The female cheetahs that prowl the Serengeti in Tanzania appear to live up to their name, scientists have shown. DNA analysis of the spotted cats found that they were serial cheaters, with nearly half of their litters made up of cubs from different fathers. Writing in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, the scientists say the infidelity may expose them to disease. However, it could also ensure the genetic diversity of the endangered species, the researchers hypothesise. "If the cubs are genetically more variable it may allow them to adapt and evolve to different circumstances," Dada Gottelli of the Zoological Society of London (ZSL) and one of the scientists on the study told the BBC News website. "If there is a big change in the environment some may be able to cope better." ) are classified as a vulnerable species according to the World Conservation Union (IUCN). The effective breeding population is estimated to be below 10,000 individuals and the species faces threats including habitat loss and poaching. The new research tracked known cheetahs in the Serengeti National Park in north-west Tanzania over nine years. Analysis of DNA collected from the faecal samples of 176 cheetahs showed that infidelity was rife, although uncommon in other big cats. Researchers tracked the cheetahs for nine years. Of 47 litters of cubs, 43% contained cubs from multiple fathers. In some cases, three males were of just one litter. "If anything, this is an underestimate," said Ms Gotelli. "Cheetah cubs suffer high mortality on the first few weeks so it was difficult to get samples from all of them." Female cheetahs are able to successfully mate with multiple males as they produce a new egg each time they mate, a process known as induced ovulation Common in domestic cats and other species such as rabbits, it means that each egg can in theory be fertilised by sperm from a different male. The high incidence of promiscuity among females coupled with the fact that they increase their risk of predation, parasites and disease to mate with multiple males suggests that there must be a benefit to the behaviour. The researchers believe the evolutionary pay-off is increased genetic diversity, allowing some of the cubs to more readily adapt to change. This is good news for conservationists trying to preserve the threatened species as small populations of animals can face problems of inbreeding. However, the duplicitous behaviour may also bring other benefits such as protecting the cubs from marauding males. "Infanticide has not been observed in the wild cheetahs, like it has been in lions and leopards," said Ms Gotelli. "Maybe this is why. "It may create confusion in the males. In that case it's better not to kill any cubs in case they were yours." sparks 'male rivalry' 25 Apr 06 | Health 25 Sep 98 | Sci/Tech Zoological Society of London meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6688649.stm | Warm spring 'affecting wildlife' 25 May 2007, 05:08 GMT 06:08 UK spring 'affecting wildlife' The survey shows some species are appearing earlier than expected A warm spring has brought about the early arrival of some UK wildlife, the first results of the Springwatch 2007 survey suggest. Over the past few months, amateur naturalists have logged more than 24,000 first sightings of six key species of plants and animals. Some, such as the peacock butterfly and frogspawn, have been spotted earlier than expected. The Woodland Trust said it was worried "because the changes are so rapid". See when the wildlife was first spotted Springwatch, now in its third year, is run by the Woodland Trust and the BBC. The first sightings of swifts have not changed by much The survey data is being compiled to build up a picture of the season as it unfolds across the UK so that it can be compared to previous years. As the survey has been running for a limited time, the results cannot be interpreted as definitive guide to how a changing climate is affecting wildlife, but researchers are already examining the data for trends. Recent weather in the UK has been extremely mild, and records show it has been the warmest spring since the Springwatch survey began in 2005. Most computers will open this document automatically, but you may need Adobe Reader Download the reader here Nick Collinson, head of conservation policy at the Woodland Trust, believes the warm conditions may be responsible for some earlier-than-expected sightings. He said: "This has been our earliest Springwatch year, well ahead of the normal time we would have expected to see these events 30 years ago." Members of the public were asked to record the dates they have first seen red-tailed bumblebees, frogspawn, flowering hawthorns, seven-spot ladybirds, peacock butterflies and swifts. Some of the preliminary findings of this year's survey include: Frogspawn spotted on average two weeks earlier than in 2006 and three weeks earlier than the "phenological norm" (an average first-sighting date based on data gathered over the last 30 years). Peacock butterflies sighted on average one month earlier than 2006, two weeks earlier than 2005, and one month earlier than the norm. For swifts, the data is still returning, but initial results suggest the date has stayed much the same as 2006, 2007 and the phenological norm. Mr Collinson was worried about the possible impact of increasingly warm springs. He said: "We are concerned because the change seems to be so rapid. "And we know there is a mismatch of timing, so, for example, when insects would pollinate flowers, the flowers are coming out earlier than the insects are available, and we know this is happening. "It is very difficult to tell what that means, but certainly we know that wildlife is under pressure." SPRINGWATCH: AVERAGE SIGHTINGS ACROSS UK AND AUDIO NEWS How amateur naturalists have conducted the survey BBC Springwatch: Wetland recovery 23 May 07 | Science/Nature BBC Springwatch: A greener games 22 May 07 | Science/Nature BBC Springwatch: Recovering fish 21 May 07 | Science/Nature Wildlife winces at early spring 25 Mar 05 | UK meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6703679.stm | HSBC in $100m climate initiative 30 May 2007, 23:34 GMT 00:34 UK in $100m climate initiative More than 400 million people reliant on major rivers are under threat HSBC is setting aside $100m (£50m) for an initiative to tackle climate change. The funding by the UK's largest bank will help charities and environmental groups to research some of the global causes and effects of climate change. The partnership will look at ways to protect the world's most important rivers and identify how cities can respond to environmental threats. HSBC also said it would create "a green taskforce", to ensure climate awareness was central to its own business. HSBC is the latest UK company to pledge changes to the way it operates in the face of calls for big business to do more to prioritise environmental concerns. HSBC is teaming up with climate campaigners the Climate Group, environmental groups the Earthwatch Institute and the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI), and the conservation charity WWF in a five-year partnership We believe we can tackle the causes and impacts of climate change HSBC chairman Stephen Green Banking on green gestures? HSBC, which will spend $5m of the $100m on managing the project, said it would enable the four bodies to expand their climate-related research and undertake work in new countries such as China and India. Priorities include conducting research into the impact of climate change on the world's largest forests and improving management of freshwater systems to increase water security. "By working with four of the world's most respected environmental organisations, we believe we can tackle the causes and impacts of climate change," said Stephen Green, HSBC chairman. The Climate Group said its funding would be used to speed up action against global warming in five of the world's most polluted cities - London, New York, Hong Kong, Mumbai and Shanghai. "Many of the solutions lie in cities," said its chief executive Steve Howard. "We have a short period of time left to take action." The partnership is modelled on a previous five-year, HSBC-funded environmental campaign, which ended last year. This $50m initiative helped save 12,000 plant species from extinction, according to the firm. In conjunction with the donation, HSBC has launched an internal plan to educate its workers on the issues of climate change, at an estimated further cost of $8m. An online module about global warming has been launched and is accessible to the firm's 312,000 employees. "Over the next five years HSBC will make responding to climate change central to our business operations and at the heart of the way we work with our clients," said Mr Green. However, the initiative does not mark a change in the bank's lending policies. Mr Green said pulling out of "sensitive" sectors, including mining, chemicals, energy, forestry and energy, "would not be the right decision". The firm declared itself carbon neutral in 2005, mainly by investing in offsetting schemes. HSBC saw its own emissions rise by 23% in 2006, largely due to acquisitions, explained Jon Williams, head of group sustainable development. out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC Get the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6665205.stm | Climate and the UN: A new bid for control? 18 May 2007, 08:05 GMT 09:05 UK and the UN: A new bid for control? Felix Dodds and Richard Sherman At a recent United Nations debate, the UK argued that the Security Council should take a central role in responding to climate change. But, ask Felix Dodds and Richard Sherman in this week's Green Room, is this yet another way for rich nations to protect their own borders and interests? This UN debate on energy, security and climate... can definitely be seen as a historic event Send us your comments While governments are preoccupied with negotiations on future international action when the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period expires in 2012, a more recent debate held in the UN Security Council elevated the climate struggle to a new level. Central were the weighty questions: is climate change a threat to international peace and security, and, if so, does the Security Council have a role to play in generating intergovernmental consensus on a global response? This UN debate on energy, security and climate, which took place on 17 April, can definitely be seen as a historic event - and might, by some, even be seen as an evolutionary step in the climate debate. However, it also highlighted the continued polarisation surrounding climate change that exists between member states, and failed to conclude with a consensus on climate insecurity. One view, pronounced by the UK's Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett, supported by EU colleagues, was that the Security Council's mandate to address issues that threaten the international peace and security was indeed broad enough to encompass the impacts of climate change. "What makes wars start?" she asked. Fights over water, changing patterns of rainfall, fights over food production, land use...There are few greater potential threats to our economies too...but also to peace and security itself." However, developing countries strongly objected to the Security Council playing a role in climate change compliance and scrutiny. And the debate, coming at a time when tensions between industrialised and developing countries over the encroachment of the unrepresentative Security Council over the more democratic and representative UN General Assembly, may in fact exacerbate the political divide between rich and poor. For many developing countries, the decision by the UK presidency of the Security Council to hold a debate on climate and energy security held undertones of an inequitable response by the industrialised nations, such as the US and other global powers, most responsible for climate change. Many disagreed with Margaret Beckett They argued that perhaps the rich and powerful were seeking to protect their own interests by utilising an undemocratic process to address a global problem in which the majority of the world's citizens are innocent bystanders. Farukh Amil, the deputy permanent representative for Pakistan and chair of the group of 77 developing countries, made some powerful arguments against the inclusion of climate change in the Security Council. While recognising the importance of the issues for the achievement of sustainable development, developing countries felt the responsibilities to address the climate and security nexus were the responsibility of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. Mr Amil argued that climate change already has a binding multilateral agreement, the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), as well as the Kyoto Protocol. "No role was envisaged for the Security Council," he said. Stakeholders and climate activists were equally divided. The conservation group WWF called on the Security Council to initiate a global cooperative energy and climate strategy. Other NGOs, including our organisation Stakeholder Forum, opposed the issue being discussed at the Security Council. We argued that it was wrong as it excluded over 180 countries; and of the council's permanent five members, four are developed countries which one might consider to be interested in securing their energy and climate requirements. The question is not whether climate change is a threat to international peace and security, but more about how and where the world should have a discussion on how to address these issues Send us your comments The Security Council also excludes the input of stakeholders who bring to the table experiences at the local level and case studies of what works and doesn't. There is no question that we are starting to discuss a new paradigm of human and environmental security of which climate and energy security is an important part - but not the only part. Health epidemics, post-conflict reconstruction, nuclear weapons, migration, population growth, unsustainable consumption, poverty and trade are all also part of the discussion we need to look at through this new lens. The question is not whether climate change is a threat to international peace and security, but more about how and where the world should have a discussion on addressing these issues creatively. There are already good examples of how to create global conversations: the Earth Summit processes of the 1990s are one. In 1992, in Rio de Janeiro, the Earth Summit looked at the interface between environment and development; and in 2002, the Johannesburg Earth Summit looked at sustainable development. We are now seeing the emergence of this new paradigm because developed governments have not delivered on their Rio and Johannesburg commitments. Not because the conversation was wrong about what needed to be done - it just wasn't delivered. By 2012, 20 years from Rio, we need another Earth Summit this time on human and environmental security. If we don't, then the agenda of sustainable development will be dictated by the security concerns bringing major impacts on our lives and our democracies. Felix Dodds is executive director of Stakeholder Forum for a Sustainable Future Richard Sherman is a South African Advisor to Stakeholder Forum on issues of global governance The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Will a new UN climate initiative simply serve rich and powerful nations' self-interest? Climate action 'needs devolution' Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6694227.stm | US 'opposes' G8 climate proposals 26 May 2007, 03:37 GMT 04:37 UK 'opposes' G8 climate proposals Developing economies are at major risk from climate change The US appears to have rejected draft proposals by Germany for G8 members to agree tough measures in greenhouse gas emissions, leaked documents have shown. Wide-ranging US amendments to a draft communique prepared ahead of June's G8 in Germany summit cite a "fundamental opposition" to the proposals. Germany wants all G8 members to agree timetables and targets for major cuts. Greenpeace, who leaked the document, said it showed UK PM Tony Blair failed to persuade the US to alter its stance. In the document, US officials make major changes to the communique. In comments printed in red ink, the US negotiators express disappointment that earlier concerns have not been taken on board. We have tried to 'tread lightly' but there is only so far we can go given our fundamental opposition to the German position US comments on leaked communique The changes strike out entire sentences and significantly reduce the certainty with which the statement addresses climate change. "The US still has serious, fundamental concerns about this draft statement," a red-inked note reads. "The treatment of climate change runs counter to our overall position and crosses 'multiple red lines' in terms of what we simply cannot agree to," it continues. "We have tried to 'tread lightly' but there is only so far we can go given our fundamental opposition to the German position." However, in Washington, senior US lawmakers have written to President Bush expressing their dismay at the administration's position, the AFP news agency reports. Correspondents say the document hints at a looming struggle over the issue of climate change at the G8 summit, to be held on 6-8 June in Heiligendamm, Germany. Chancellor Angela Merkel wants to use Germany's presidency of the G8 to secure a major climate change deal, including: Agreement to slow the rise in average temperatures this century to 2C A cut in global emissions by 50% below 1990 levels by 2050 A rise in energy efficiency in power and transport by 20% by 2020. Greenpeace Director John Sauven described the US position as "criminal". "The US administration is clearly ignoring the global scientific consensus as well the groundswell of concern about climate change in the United States," he said. Mrs Merkel should make it clear the US was isolated on the issue among G8 members, he added. Speaking on 24 May, British Prime Minister Tony Blair suggested the US could be on the verge of altering its climate policy. The US has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which sets out targets for lowering emissions until 2012. "I can't think that there's going to be many people running for presidential office next time round in the US who aren't going to have climate change in their programme," said Mr Blair. "I think it is possible that we will see action - and at least the beginnings of that action at the G8 - I hope so. That's what I'm arguing for." AND AUDIO NEWS World leaders at the 2006 G8 summit Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6706607.stm | Recovery for warbler population 31 May 2007, 02:44 GMT 03:44 UK for warbler population Restoring heathlands is vital to the warblers' recovery, say the RSPB A vulnerable bird is experiencing an extraordinary population revival in the UK, RSPB figures have indicated. The latest survey of Dartford warblers shows that numbers have soared by 70% since the last count in 1994. The bird is vulnerable to changes in climate and two harsh winters left just 11 pairs of the bird in 1963. It has returned to Wales, the Midlands and East Anglia and now there are more than 3,000 pairs - the highest tally for more than 40 years. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds says the recent rise in numbers - to an estimated 3,208 pairs from 1,890 in 1994 - is due both to milder winters and improvements in the conservation of heathland habitats. But campaigners say more work is needed to protect and restore heathlands in order to cement the warbler's recovery. The warbler has been returning to its former ranges "This survey is fantastic news for a very vulnerable bird, particularly because it has moved to higher ground not used by Dartford warblers for many years," said Simon Wotton, research biologist at the RSPB. "Warmer winters mean the birds are likely to push even further north but they can only do that if there are heathland sites available, which are protected from development. "If the government is to help wildlife adapt to climate change it should be assigning more land for the creation of habitats to help birds like these." But the bird remains vulnerable in some areas of its range and, on the Thames Basin heaths in Berkshire, Hampshire and Surrey, numbers fell by 40% from 2005 to 2006. The reasons for this remain unclear. The RSPB said the losses emphasised the importance of protection and management of the warbler's existing strongholds. It says the creation of new heathland sites is vital to help Dartford warblers expand their range. The Dartford warbler survey was a joint effort between the RSPB, Natural England, Forestry Commission England and The British Trust for Ornithology. 'still at risk from homes' 27 Feb 07 | England Plea to save heaths from housing 21 Nov 06 | England Mysterious decline of heath birds 09 Aug 06 | Devon meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6694251.stm | Organic move to cut food flights 26 May 2007, 04:35 GMT 05:35 UK move to cut food flights The Soil Association wants food to travel shorter distances Food flown into the UK may be stripped of organic status in a move being considered by the Soil Association. The organisation, which certifies which foods are organic, says it is looking at a number of proposals because of concern about greenhouse gas emissions. It will outline a series of options, including an outright ban, in a consultation document next week. Other proposals include labels showing a product's country of origin as well as carbon offsetting schemes. Flying produce into Britain from abroad is the fastest growing form of food transport. Organic food grown in this country is taken to the supermarket by horse and cart I suppose? Send us your comments And the Soil Association says highly perishable or out-of-season produce make up the bulk of air-freighted organic produce. But due to growing demands to cut the environmental impact of food distribution, the organisation is now considering five options to reduce the carbon footprint of air-freighted food. These include a campaign to partially or fully deny food imported into the UK by air the right to label itself organic and comprehensive labelling showing a product's country of origin as well as the air miles it has travelled. However, the Soil Association says that air transport can help developing countries with poor infrastructure to get their goods to markets. And any decision would have to take into account the impact on farmers in the developing world, it added. A snap survey of the major supermarkets by the BBC's Breakfast programme found some organic versions of seasonal fruit and vegetables had been imported from as far away as Thailand and Argentina. But supermarkets say they stock local produce whenever possible. AND AUDIO NEWS A Soil Association spokesman explains the proposals Organic food imports under fire 26 Jan 07 | Business Food miles don't go the distance 16 Mar 06 | Science/Nature Local food 'greener than organic' 02 Mar 05 | Science/Nature Supermarkets defend food sourcing 03 Mar 05 | Business anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:46 GMT 17:46 UK Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt The International Whaling Commission passes a resolution condemning Japan's Antarctic whale hunt. Whale sanctuary plan defeated Cruelty and the kitchen Did Greens help kill the whale? Great apes 'facing climate peril' The great apes are facing an "inevitable crisis" arising from climate change, a leading conservationist warns. US urges new greenhouse gas goals US President George W Bush outlines a new plan to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. Recovery for warbler population Sightings hope for rare farm bird HSBC in $100m climate initiative Irish eagle chick is first in century Cheating cheetahs caught by DNA ALSO IN THE NEWS Cows in New Zealand produce their own natural skimmed milk Does spending $100m on climate change make a bank green? Why Alaskan Eskimos have a cultural claim to hunt whales The British telescope being built on a mountaintop in Chile VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Actors' support for total whaling ban Campaign to axe plastic bags Bush calls for climate action Watch device translates words More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet Scientists find bird flu antibody Days ahead crucial for Mars rover UK 'must pay more for emissions' Planet hunters spy distant haul Tracks suggest dinos could swim Deadlock at Greenland whale plan US 'rejects' G8 climate proposals Organic move to cut food flights Warm spring 'affecting wildlife' Blair: US may back carbon deal Environmental opinion and debate Climate control through the UN Cheating cheetahs caught by DNA Planet hunters spy distant haul 'Living plugs' smooth ant journey How X-ray technology is revolutionising patient care Croatia trains honey bees to sniff out landmines The BBC's flagship technology lifestyle TV programme ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6690191.stm | Blair: US may back carbon deal 25 May 2007, 00:58 GMT 01:58 UK US may back carbon deal Germany has made climate a priority for the G8 presidency The US may be willing to back an agreement at next month's G8 summit on cutting carbon dioxide emissions, Tony Blair has said on BBC TV. Up to now, the Bush administration has championed voluntary agreements as an alternative to imposing binding caps. Germany has made climate change a priority for its G8 presidency. The prime minister said awareness of the issue among Americans was growing and it was possible the US will sign up to "at least the beginnings" of action. Last September, California became the first US state to set targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Speaking on the BBC's Newsnight programme, Mr Blair was asked how he was going to persuade President George W Bush to agree to national impose limits on CO2. "You've got several of the states now doing it," Mr Blair said. For the first time, at least the Americans are in this "I can't think that there's going to be many people running for presidential office next time round in the US who aren't going to have climate change in their programme." He added: "I think it is possible that we will see action - and at least the beginnings of that action at the G8 - I hope so. That's what I'm arguing for." Mr Blair's comments on Newsnight came after the G8 countries, together with China, India, Mexico, Brazil and South Africa, have been holding talks on emissions. "For the first time, at least the Americans are in this G8 plus 5 process," Mr Blair said. But only last week a UN-hosted meeting ended with the US indicating it was unlikely to take part in negotiations at the end of this year on a global agreement to cut emissions. And according to documents seen by the BBC, the US is trying to block sections of a draft agreement on climate change prepared for the G8 summit. Washington is said to object to the targets to keep the global temperature rise below 2C this century and halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. AND AUDIO NEWS Tony Blair's Newsnight interview Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6689541.stm | Moving the whaling debate forward 25 May 2007, 09:46 GMT 10:46 UK the whaling debate forward By the Rt Hon Sir Geoffrey Palmer The debate over commercial whaling is brought to the table once again at the International Whaling Commission's annual meeting. But, Geoffrey Palmer argues in this week's Green Room, there may be ways to avoid the usual stalemate. It is devoutly to be hoped that light rather than heat emerges from that discussion Send us your comments Guide to the Great Whales Since the commercial whaling moratorium went into effect in 1986, more than 29,000 whales have been killed under objection and special permit whaling. The Japanese government issues special permits, as it is able to do under the whaling convention, allowing hunting for scientific research; Norway and Iceland use an International Whaling Commission (IWC) regulation allowing exemptions from the moratorium. For nearly 15 years the IWC annual meetings have been dominated by discussions on how to devise a scheme that allows commercial whaling to resume but properly protects the stocks. A 75% majority is required in order for commercial whaling to resume under the whaling convention. But at present, the IWC member nations are divided over this issue. One block of nations wishes to see commercial whaling resume even if those nations do not engage in it. Another block does not want to see commercial whaling resume under any circumstances. A middle group wants a compromise to be reached. Debate has been highly divisive and anything but diplomatic. No agreement has been reached. This debate has now become so intense that efforts are being made to cast around for solutions. The Pew Charitable Trusts, with the support of the United Nations Environment Programme (Unep), sponsored a meeting at the UN in April, in New York, entitled Symposium on the State of the Conservation of Whales in the 21st Century, which I chaired. The meeting had representation from around the world and had about equal numbers of people with IWC experience, NGO experience, and environmental experience but not with whales. This mix did turn out to produce new perspectives. For two days, participants in the conference looked at four main themes: the state of whale stocks and the science relating to them developments in international ocean law diplomatic means that may be available to address the impasse suggestions for the future What emerged from these deliberations was a menu of options that may offer a way forward. One block of nations wishes to see commercial whaling resume No coalition of views around any single option emerged, but new suggestions were made that had not been heard before. Many are worthy of further exploration. There was a view that the current arrangements, contentious as they are, may be the best available means of protecting whales. According to that view, present policy settings should be maintained and efforts should be made to continue a further conservation agenda within the IWC. Indeed, throughout the conference, there were no suggestions that the IWC could be dispensed with, although there were many ideas on how to cure its afflictions. Pro-conservation countries consult with their pro-conservation NGOs One of these was that a number of changes should be made to the whaling convention in order to remove or restrict the use of scientific whaling. Another was to have better enforcement of the convention with a new dispute settlement provision and no capacity to make reservations to the new rules or opt out. There were suggestions that commercial whaling should resume on a limited basis, provided that scientific whaling is abandoned and there is a ban on the international trade in whale meat. Whaling in sanctuaries (large areas where whales are protected by a decision of the International Whaling Commission, such as the Southern Seas) would have to be phased out as well. It was widely agreed that there needed to be a more diplomatic atmosphere within the IWC. One complexity of whaling politics is that - although it is governments who make decisions - they need to take into account the feelings of public opinion, which are heavily politically and emotionally charged on both sides. For every important step, pro-conservation countries consult with their pro-conservation NGOs. So do the whaling countries with the representatives of their pro-whaling interests. There were also propositions that attempts be made to settle the problems by a "higher" authority such as an independent world commission, a ministerial summit held on the 60th anniversary of the IWC, or a mutually agreed binding mediation or arbitration procedure. Others thought an international diplomatic conference under the auspices of the UN should be convened, or an independent group of eminent persons be assembled to make recommendations. Another idea was that the whaling issue should be integrated into broader oceans, biodiversity and species protection programmes. There has to be a better way forward There were thoughts that research be conducted into the economics of whaling; whale watching means that whales are worth more alive than dead. The question of subsidies for whaling should also be explored. One strong suggestion was that new approaches to conflict management within the IWC should be explored. This case was presented in a most compelling fashion. Only time will tell whether solutions will emerge to what has become an increasingly pressing diplomatic problem. The future of the IWC will be debated as a separate agenda item for the first time this year at the annual meeting in Anchorage, Alaska. It will be a good opportunity to test the ideas that arose in this meeting. I am eager to hear the response from all countries. It is devoutly to be hoped that light rather than heat emerges from that discussion. So many members of the IWC are unhappy with the current situation that there has to be a better way forward. Sir Geoffrey was Prime Minister of New Zealand from 1989-1990. He is the president of the Law Commission in New Zealand and that country's Commissioner to the IWC. The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website. series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Will a new UN climate initiative simply serve rich and powerful nations' self-interest? Climate action 'needs devolution' Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans New York Pew Symposium meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6703655.stm Ireland | Irish eagle chick is first in century 30 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK eagle chick is first in century The golden eagle chick is five weeks old A wild golden eagle has been hatched in Ireland for the first time in nearly a century. Two chicks were hatched in a remote area of the Glenveagh National Park in County Donegal but one of the young birds died after five days. There will be a further nervous wait to see if the remaining chick can continue to grow and fledge in late July. Golden eagles last bred in Glenveagh back in 1910. The bird had become extinct in Ireland but was reintroduced at Glenveagh six years ago in an effort to reintroduce the bird to Ireland. The new chick, whose father is from Skye and mother from Sutherland, is now just five weeks old. Project manager for the Golden Eagle Trust Lorcan O'Toole said he was delighted at the news. "We think it is a girl but we are not quite sure. It is still relatively small," he explained. "Eagle chicks are quite vulnerable but she will quickly grow." The trust has been monitoring the birds in Donegal for the last five or six years. Eggs are normally laid around mid March and take six weeks to hatch. This first wild golden eagle is described by conservationists as a milestone in efforts to reverse the decline of native animal and plant species in Ireland. "Emotionally we are just delighted to have such a wild creature breeding in Ireland once again," Mr O'Toole said. "Golden eagles would have been quite a common sight, 300 or 400 years ago. But they have had a pretty poor history for the last two to three centuries. "We just feel that it is a good omen and it bodes well for the future where we can all maybe show more awareness of our landscape." The birds were recently reintroduced to Ireland from Scotland with the assistance of various enthusiasts. In Scotland, under wise management, there are still 420 pairs of golden eagles. But the eagles have died out in Wales and the few remaining English eagles can only be found in the Lake District. "Maybe if there is a bit more tolerance of wildlife, we can see some of these species return to their former haunts," Mr O'Toole said. AND AUDIO NEWS The golden eagle chick nesting TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6699893.stm | Planet hunters spy distant haul 29 May 2007, 11:43 GMT 12:43 UK hunters spy distant haul The ice-giant Gliese 436 is 30 light years from Earth A haul of 28 new planets beyond our solar system has been detected by the world's most prolific planet hunters. The finds were among 37 objects seen orbiting distant stars by a US and Anglo-Australian team in the last year. Other objects reported by the group, at an American Astronomical Society meeting in Honolulu, included five failed stars, known as brown dwarfs. The finds increase the total number of known exoplanets to 236, more than half of which were discovered by the team. "The more we look, the more we find planets," said Professor Tinney of the University of New South Wales, head of the Australian part of the Anglo-Australian Planet Search. Among the finds were at least four multiple-planetary systems. All of the planets were so-called gas giants, similar to Jupiter, with no solid surface. "Something like 10 to 15% of stars host gas giants," said Professor Tinney. "A larger fraction of stars may host planets too small for us to detect." These could include Earth-sized objects, which could harbour life. The smallest exoplanet discovered orbits Gliese 581 Earlier this year, scientists using the European Southern Observatory (ESO) 3.6m Telescope in Chile discovered the smallest exoplanet - as astronomers call planets that orbit a star other than the Sun - yet. The "super-Earth" orbited the faint star Gliese 581, 20.5 light-years away in the constellation Libra. Its radius was just 1.5 times that of the Earth. Intriguingly, the planet could have liquid water on its surface, a key ingredient of life. It was discovered using a sensitive instrument that can measure tiny changes in the velocity of a star as it experiences the gravitational tug of a nearby planet. It was the same method used to detect the latest batch of extra solar planets. According to Dr Jason Wright of the University of California, Berkeley, one of the members of the US California and Carnegie Planet Search, the technique has become more sophisticated, improving detection rates dramatically. "We're just now getting to the point where, if we were observing our own Solar System from afar, we would be seeing Jupiter," he said. These techniques allow scientists to detect changes in the motion of stars as small as one metre per second. Astronomers are stuck with such indirect methods of detection because current telescope technology struggles to image very distant and faint objects - especially when they orbit close to the glare of a star. The discovery of the 28 new planets has given astronomers new targets to analyse in more detail. For example, a planet discovered two years ago has already yielded a mass of "extraordinarily rich" information, according to Professor Geoff Marcy of the University of California, Berkeley. Circling the star Gliese 436, 30 light years from Earth, was an ice-giant planet that was calculated by Swiss and Belgian scientists to be at least 22 Earth masses, slightly larger than the mass of Neptune. Their studies had also revealed its density. "It must be 50% rock and about 50% water, with perhaps small amounts of hydrogen and helium," said Professor Marcy. "This planet has the interior structure of a hybrid super-Earth/Neptune, with a rocky core surrounded by a significant amount of water compressed into solid form at high pressures and temperatures." However, the planet is not thought to be capable of supporting life. telescope spots new planet 03 May 07 | Science/Nature New 'super-Earth' found in space 25 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Planet shine 'to aid life search' 24 May 06 | Science/Nature Planet hunters find 'super-Earth' 14 Mar 06 | Science/Nature Small planets seen by astronomers 31 Aug 04 | Science/Nature Smallest Earth-like planet found 25 Jan 06 | Science/Nature California and Carnegie Planet Search meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6704549.stm | Great apes 'facing climate peril' 30 May 2007, 15:03 GMT 16:03 UK apes 'facing climate peril' Dr Leakey says climate change is putting great ape species at risk Great apes are facing an "inevitable crisis" arising from climate change, a leading conservationist has warned. Dr Richard Leakey said that growing pressure to switch from fossil fuels to biofuels could result in further destruction of the animals' habitats. The chair of WildlifeDirect called for immediate action and proposed financial incentives to save forests from destruction as one possible solution. He said: "Climate change will undoubtedly impact everything we know." The implications for biodiversity are there for all to see The great apes - gorillas, chimps, bonobos and orangutans - are already under threat from habitat destruction, poaching, logging and disease. The Great Apes Survival Project (Grasp), a United Nations Environment Programme (Unep) initiative, has warned that great apes are at risk of imminent extinction unless drastic action is taken. In advance of a talk at the UK's Royal Geographical Society, Dr Leakey told journalists that climate threats now had to be added to the mix. The former director of the Kenyan Wildlife Service said: "I am concerned about the pressures on the land as a result of changes to the climate, but also the pressures on the land in terms of people's reaction to climate change and the shift away from fossil fuels to biofuels." The great apes: Status check He said that "great swathes" of forest had already been destroyed in South Asia to make way for palm oil plantations, and this had had a dramatic impact on orangutans, which currently number 50,000. Palm oil is used in vegetable oil, soaps, shampoos, industrial substances, but it has also been proposed as an alternative to fossil fuel. Dr Leakey said the growing pressure to turn to biofuels such as palm oil could place the great apes' habitat in further peril. He added: "People shrug their shoulders and say what are poor countries to do if they cannot exploit their natural resources, and I can understand this, but it is not sustainable the way it is going." There is also evidence that deforestation would further drive climate change itself by raising the amount of greenhouse gas carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, Dr Leakey said. Dr Leakey suggested "biodiversity credits" could be a possible solution. "Being paid for not cutting down indigenous forests and getting credit for that is a further step that builds on the idea of getting paid for planting new forests," he explained. "It does seem that we cannot stop development, but it does also seem that perhaps we can stop development where critical species are threatened, and perhaps there could be a price added to that." Dr Leakey is a prominent conservationist in Kenya He said that there could be creative ways to solve the problems that climate change could bring, but added that it was crucial that action was taken now. Dr Leakey told journalists: "Could the great apes go because of climate change? Yes. Possibly not within our lifetime, but what about in 100 or 200 years? "Climate change is measurable and is happening at rate that is almost unprecedented from what we know in previous history, and the implications for biodiversity are there for all to see." Richard Leakey is a palaeo-anthropologist, responsible for extensive fossil finds related to human evolution, and renowned Kenyan conservationist. His parents, Louis and Mary Leakey, were prominent palaeontologists, finding and excavating key sites around Africa. Green energy or grim reaper? 22 Sep 06 | Science/Nature Climate risk 'to million species' 07 Jan 04 | Science/Nature Genes record orangutans' decline 24 Jan 06 | Science/Nature Orangutans 'may die out by 2025' 12 Jan 04 | Science/Nature Climate fear for African elephant 07 May 05 | Science/Nature Declaration signed on great apes 12 Sep 05 | Science/Nature Apes 'extinct in a generation' 01 Sep 05 | Science/Nature Profile: Dr Richard Leakey 15 May 01 | Africa meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707455.stm | Asia-Pacific | Freed Chinese panda dies in wild 31 May 2007, 11:11 GMT 12:11 UK Chinese panda dies in wild Xiang Xiang was released into Sichuan's forests in April 2006 The first Chinese panda released into the wild after being bred in captivity has died, Chinese media has announced. Xiang Xiang was released in April 2006 from the Wolong Giant Panda Research Centre and was said to be adjusting well to his new life. But the five-year-old was found dead in February. Officials said his death was likely due to a fight with wild pandas. Xiang Xiang's death is a set back for China's efforts to increase the number of giant pandas in the wild. Giant pandas are one of the world's most endangered species. Only about 1,600 remain in the wild, with another 200 living in captivity. Before his release, Xiang Xiang spent three years in a special training compound at the research centre in Sichuan province to prepare him for a natural habitat. Last year, experts there said he appeared to be integrating into the area's wild panda population. The lessons we have learnt from what happened to Xiang Xiang will help us adapt and improve the project But he was briefly taken back to the centre in December for treatment after a fight with other pandas. "We chose Xiang Xiang because we thought that a strong male panda would have a better chance of surviving in the harsh natural environment," Xinhua news agency quoted the reserve's deputy director Li Desheng as saying. "But the other male pandas clearly saw Xiang Xiang as a threat." Officials suggested that Xiang Xiang, whose injuries included broken ribs, had fallen from a high place after a fight with other pandas over food or territory. Zhang Hemin, head of the centre, said that they would continue to release pandas into the wild. "We are all sad about Xiang Xiang, but it doesn't mean the project has failed," he said. "The lessons we have learnt from what happened to Xiang Xiang will help us adapt and improve the project." The delay in reporting Xiang Xiang's death was because of the need for a full investigation, Xinhua quoted officials as saying. Chinese panda 'doing well' 10 Jul 06 | Asia-Pacific China releases panda to the wild 28 Apr 06 | Asia-Pacific China reports panda breeding boon 17 Nov 05 | Asia-Pacific Satellites to monitor panda sex 27 Sep 05 | Asia-Pacific Chinese panda gets his teeth done 09 Apr 05 | Asia-Pacific China finds more wild pandas 10 Jun 04 | Asia-Pacific BBC Science: Giant Panda Wolong Panda Conservation Centre unveils climate change plan Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6708661.stm | Space agencies will 'co-ordinate' 31 May 2007, 17:15 GMT 18:15 UK agencies will 'co-ordinate' A Mars sample return mission will be too big for any one agency Fourteen space agencies have agreed to co-ordinate future space exploration of the Moon and Mars. They have published a document that contains their common space goals, agreed after months of discussion. The document outlines the rationale for society to explore space and the current interest in returning to the Moon and exploring Mars. The document is non-binding, instead proposing a framework for the future co-ordination of space programmes. The US space agency (Nasa) says the document, called The Global Exploration Strategy: The Framework for Co-ordination, will help different countries exchange information on their space plans. In addition, it will help identify gaps, duplication and potential areas for collaboration. Nasa said the framework document was "an important step in an evolving process towards a comprehensive global approach to space exploration". The agency added that the contents were consistent with "ongoing bilateral and multilateral discussions" on co-operating with other agencies. Space agencies involved in the agreement are: Esa (European Space Agency) The UK's science and innovation minister Malcolm Wicks said: "The Framework for Co-ordination sets out a common vision for a new era of international collaboration. "I welcome the fact that the UK can use this to inform our national plans while joining together in a truly global endeavour." The US, Russian, Chinese and European space agencies have all outlined programmes of exploration of the Moon and Mars. The European Space Agency's (Esa) exploration roadmap calls for a mission to return samples of rock and soil from Mars. But experts say this the costs and technological demands of this project would be too much for any one agency to shoulder. And both Esa and Nasa say they are keen to replicate the success of the Cassini-Huygens mission to Saturn. But the first crucial mission in Esa's roadmap is facing a tough test, as ministers decide whether to approve a costly upgrade to the ExoMars rover project. Observers fear Esa delegates could baulk at the expense - estimated at tens of millions of euros - of launching the rover with an orbiter to relay data back to Earth. China has already said it will launch a joint mission with Russia to Mars, calling this a "milestone" in space co-operation between the two countries. But Russia last month said the US had rejected its offer to join forces on exploring the Moon. Nasa wants to send astronauts back to the lunar surface by 2020, with a view to building a permanent lunar base. ahead crucial for Mars rover 25 May 07 | Science/Nature Nasa 'rejects Russia Moon help' 30 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Russia, China aim for Red Planet 29 Mar 07 | Science/Nature US plans permanent base on Moon 05 Dec 06 | Americas The dawn of a new space race? 14 Oct 05 | Asia-Pacific China unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6693879.stm | Days ahead crucial for Mars rover 25 May 2007, 21:21 GMT 22:21 UK ahead crucial for Mars rover Science reporter, BBC News The robotic rover mission is set to be launched in 2013 Talks to resolve the design of Europe's rover mission to Mars are converging on a "best solution for science", a senior space official has told the BBC. The option in question would require an upgrade to the original vision. But observers fear some European Space Agency (Esa) delegates could still baulk at the enormous costs of an enhanced mission. It will test the resolve of member states to avoid the unthinkable - killing off the flagship project. Abandoning the ExoMars mission would be a public relations catastrophe for the space agency, raising serious questions over Europe's space capability. The robotic rover mission is set to be launched to the Red Planet in 2013. The general consensus was positive and recognising the need to have much more science return from the mission Esa ExoMars team member The top-level panel from Esa member states, including the UK, is being asked by agency scientists to approve an upgraded - and much more expensive - design to that originally proposed. It would see ExoMars travel with an orbiter to relay data back to Earth. This would free the mission from reliance on US spacecraft for communications with home, and would allow the rover to wait in orbit for Martian dust storms to subside before landing on the Red Planet. The option would require the whole package to be launched on a bigger, more powerful rocket, meaning the robotic vehicle could also carry additional, or heavier, science instruments to search for life. ExoMars is one stage in an ambitious European programme of planetary exploration - called Aurora - which is geared eventually to include a mission to return samples of Martian soil to Earth. Delegates from Esa member states have been meeting this week in Paris to agree a final configuration so that industrial partners can move ahead on the project. Bruno Gardini, a member of Esa's ExoMars project team, said that "opinion was converging" on the beefed-up mission design. "We are moving in that direction," he told BBC News. "The general consensus was positive and recognising the need to have much more science return from the mission. But taking a decision takes a little bit of time and consultation. "There has of course been discussion on all possible alternatives. But I think at the end, the opinion of the present participants was - I would dare to say - converging because of the scientific return." Delegates will now meet again on 11 June in an attempt to reach formal agreement on the mission's configuration. An important meeting to hammer out the financial details of the proposal is scheduled for later this year. For months, scientific and industrial groups across Europe have been developing a number of concepts in parallel. The Ariane 5 would have the power to launch an upgraded mission The early "baseline option" called for a rover to be launched on a Soyuz-Fregat booster and landed on Mars using bouncing gas bags. In this original configuration, the 650m-euro rover would have the capacity to carry 8kg of instrumentation, including a drill to burrow beneath the Martian soil. A Geophysics/Environment Package (GEP) would also be sent with the rover. This fixed station, once placed on the planet's surface, could sense "Marsquakes" and monitor weather. But the bouncing bags would put tight constraints on the volume of space into which the rover must be stowed. This in turn restricts the maximum mass that can be given over to instruments and makes it impossible to carry a meaningful GEP payload. Discontent was also expressed over intentions to use American orbiting spacecraft at Mars to relay commands and data. If the US were to experience a spacecraft failure - as happened last year - ExoMars could be compromised. Design teams have therefore been considering the enhanced concept that would see the rover launched on a heavy lift Ariane 5 or a Proton rocket. "We need a decision on the technical content of the work, otherwise it is not efficient anymore," said Bruno Gardini. David Parker, from the UK delegation on Esa's Programme Board for Human Spaceflight, Microgravity and Exploration, said: "There are future meetings over the coming weeks and months, to try to find the definite way forward on the ExoMars mission." Of the heavy lift option, he said: "That was Esa's recommendation and was presented to us in real time. Now we have to go back home and reflect and think about it." Some commentators, however, have been worried the extra costs of the beefed-up design - amounting to tens of millions of euros - could force some delegates into turning their backs on the mission. But to abandon ExoMars now would make a mockery of Esa's planetary exploration programme. It would also knock back a generation of scientists who have pinned their hopes on the Aurora roadmap to deliver a mission to bring back Martian soil and rocks for study in laboratories on Earth. Late last year, the launch of ExoMars was pushed back from 2011 to December 2013. With a launch in 2011, ExoMars would have spent two years in a heliocentric orbit before reaching its target. The mission will now make a direct transfer to Mars, which takes less time to get to the Red Planet. But it will now arrive in September 2014, during a period of global dust storms. Without an orbiter, the rover would have to land in the midst of these storms, a risk Esa says it is unwilling to take. moon 'could be key test' Frozen sea may harbour Mars life Hardy bug re-opens Mars debate Water 'flowed recently' on Mars Probe spies landers on Red Planet European Mars launch delayed Rover may get one-way ticket Mars rover takes in crater view Q&A: Nasa's Mars orbiter How to take pictures of Mars Mars Express mission briefing Full in depth report 37th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference European Space Agency, Aurora Programme unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6711245.stm | EU 'must walk its climate talk' 1 June 2007, 13:08 GMT 14:08 UK 'must walk its climate talk' EU institutions need to put their own house in order before it can be seriously considered as the global leader in the battle against climate change, argues Green MEP Caroline Lucas. In this week's Green Room, she says a start would be the end of the monthly "merry-go-round" between Brussels and Strasbourg. Just a few weeks after trumpeting the success of agreeing the new CO2 reduction targets, EU ministers signed up to a new "Open Skies" agreement with the US, which will increase the number of flights by 25 million... every year Send us your comments Climate change doesn't just threaten a future humanitarian and economic disaster, its effects are devastatingly visible today. Wherever you look, the evidence for climate change is growing. The most recent findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC); the warmest April for 300 years; the almost annual devastation of Bangladesh from flooding; a massive upsurge in freak weather events; the rapidly shrinking Arctic ice, are just a few examples. An overwhelming scientific and political consensus pronounces that this is being caused by greenhouse gas emissions produced by human activity. It's increasingly being recognised that, to stave off its worst impacts, we must cut these emissions by as much as 80-90% over the next few decades. So, as the European Union seeks a revitalisation of its role and purpose as it marks its 50th birthday, surely it has prioritised the adoption of policies to do just that? Well, no, not quite. In April, EU ministers adopted a binding target of reducing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 20% across the EU by 2020. This target doesn't go far enough, or fast enough, but the real problem is that it is unlikely to be delivered at all. Why? Partly because the EU's policy priorities remain focused on the objectives of greater free trade and international competitiveness rather than becoming a leader in the global fight against climate change and sustainable living. Currently, the Lisbon Agenda, with its mantra of greater liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation, is allowed to trump efforts to achieve ambitious, binding emission reduction targets. To tackle the new threats and challenges we face today, and to deliver a fair, sustainable and peaceful Europe into the 21st Century, the EU must undergo radical reform For example, just a few weeks after trumpeting the success of agreeing the new CO2 reduction targets, EU ministers signed up to a new "Open Skies" agreement with the US, which will increase the number of flights by 25 million and belch an extra 3.5 million tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere every year - and didn't see the slightest contradiction in doing so. Or take the recent wrangle over new rules designed to combat CO2 emissions produced by cars. Earlier this year, ambitious proposals to limit emissions were significantly weakened as the economic arguments of the industry commissioner took precedence over the desire to cut emissions voiced urgently by the environment commissioner. The 50th anniversary of the EU is a timely moment to reassess its role and purpose. It is already clear that, in order to be able to tackle the new threats and challenges we face today, and to deliver a fair, sustainable and peaceful Europe into the 21st Century, the EU must undergo radical reform. In particular, if we are to genuinely make climate security a major new purpose of the EU, we need to replace its overriding objective of international competitiveness and free trade, with a new "big idea" for Europe based on environmental sustainability and economic localisation. But EU policy makers will never be able to convince business, private individuals and other nations to take the sometimes radical steps necessary towards this goal until they have shown that they are doing so themselves. Second home - the Strasbourg parliament is unnecessary, says Dr Lucas The fact remains that the European Parliament itself is a prodigious emitter of carbon. Take, for example, its anachronistic "two seat" arrangement that sees its meetings alternate between Brussels and Strasbourg, 220 miles away. This completely unnecessary monthly merry-go-round consists of some 2,000 parliamentary staff and interpreters, nearly 1,000 assistants, journalists and lobbyists, 785 MEPs and 15 lorry-loads of trunks and documents. This travelling circus is responsible for emitting at least 20,000 tonnes of CO2 every year - about the same as the entire CO2 output of a small nation like Kiribati, or 4,000 London households. This is the conclusion of a report I and my Green Party colleague, Jean Lambert MEP, recently commissioned. It argues that, if the parliament is to be a credible authority on climate change, the EU and its member governments must agree to end the Strasbourg operation immediately in order to "put its own house in order". The report concludes: "The Strasbourg operation imposes a very large climate change burden. There are reasons why Parliament has evolved this way but the urgent need to take action on climate change requires a change of plan. "Not to change historical working practice sends a very clear message to millions of citizens and thousands of businesses that they need not try very hard to change behaviour if this change is inconvenient." The EU could become a world leader in tackling climate change and sustainable living, promoting renewable energy generation and living more lightly on the planet - indeed, it's essential that it does so. Moreover, exercising real political leadership on climate change would also re-invigorate the EU project, giving it a new aim and purpose, and helping to reconnect its institutions with its increasingly jaded half-a-billion citizens, inspiring them with a new sense of enthusiasm and common cause. Green MEPs know this and are committed to trying to lead the other EU institutions and member governments towards the same conclusion. If we are to succeed though, we will have to put our own house(s) in order first. Dr Caroline Lucas is a Green Party MEP for South-East England The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Nations must stop arguing and start talking about whaling New bid for UN climate control? Climate action 'needs devolution' Young minds, go for it! unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6709855.stm | Nuclear reactor secrets revealed 1 June 2007, 10:57 GMT 11:57 UK reactor secrets revealed The documents have been sealed in envelopes for nearly 70 years Instructions on how to build a nuclear reactor have been revealed from five sealed envelopes that have lain hidden for almost 70 years. The documents were sent to the UK's Royal Society for safekeeping by James Chadwick, discoverer of the neutron, during World War II. He felt their contents, which described cutting-edge science, were far too sensitive to publish at the time. The envelopes were recently discovered in the science academy's archives. I can see why these papers were locked away during the war They were opened on Thursday to mark the 75th anniversary of the neutron's discovery. The publication of James Chadwick's paper, The Existence of a Neutron, kick-started the field of nuclear physics. Keith Moore, head of library and archives at the Royal Society, said: "The papers have only recently been discovered as part of our ongoing programme to catalogue the Society's archives. "The documents have been sealed for so long it only seemed right to wait for an occasion to open them. The anniversary of Chadwick's discovery seemed fitting." The envelopes contain the work of two French scientists, Hans Von Halban and Lew Kowarski, who worked in the Cavendish laboratory in Cambridge. The documents detail experiments on nuclear fission, covering the components needed to make a nuclear reactor, how to create plutonium from uranium, and methods to stabilise nuclear chain reactions. Dr Brian Cox, a particle physicist from Cern, said: "These papers describe what was cutting-edge science at the time. James Chadwick realised the sensitive nature of the documents "The sheer amount of knowledge that these papers contain amazes me - only eight years after Chadwick discovered that a neutron even existed, these scientists are already looking at how to use neutrons to bring about nuclear fission and energy. "I can see why these papers were locked away during the war - they contain details that could be used to build a nuclear reactor." The sealed envelopes were accompanied by a letter from Professor Chadwick. Recognising the possible consequences of nuclear fission's massive energy releases, he wrote that the work was "inadvisable to publish at the present time". Dr Cox said: "These papers are a truly significant part of nuclear history. They provide a fascinating insight into the inquisitive nature of scientists working in a field moving so rapidly it was almost outpacing them. "It is fascinating to read their views on what might come of their research - and how accurate some of their predictions have been." unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6713397.stm | Consumers 'support BSE feed ban' 1 June 2007, 20:18 GMT 21:18 UK 'support BSE feed ban' EU scientists are looking at the safety of using animal by-products Consumers "remember BSE" and do not want the ban on feeding animal remains to livestock lifted, a parliamentary committee chairman has said. The European Commission is funding research on whether to relax its rules on animal by-products in feed because of the financial impact on farmers. Their use was stopped in 2000 because of links to BSE ("mad cow disease"). The UK's Environment, Food and Rural Affairs committee chairman says the public would reject the move. Feeding animal carcasses to other farm animals was halted seven years ago at the height of the UK's BSE crisis. The chairman of the all-party Environment, Food and Rural Affairs committee, Michael Jack, told BBC Radio Five Live that consumers in the UK and the rest of Europe still had "their memory of the mess that was BSE". "I think they would run a mile from going back to the days of feeding animals to animals," he added. BSE (Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy) or "mad cow disease" was spread by the practice of feeding infected cattle remains to other cattle on farms. In the UK, thousands of cows contracted the disease. BSE-infected meat was linked to cases of vCJD (variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease) - a degenerative neurological disease currently without treatment or cure - in humans. But the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC), which includes business representatives, employers and trade unions, has now passed a report to the European Commission urging it to speed up its research on the safety of using animal by-products. You have got to be confident that the consumer will be comfortable with this The EESC, which has no legislative powers but advises the commission, said the agriculture sector had "lost a major source of protein for feed" and that the price of vegetable protein had "shot up due to increased demand". It added: "Slaughterhouse by-products also went from being a source of additional profit to constituting a financial burden; this factor, combined with the higher price of meat meal, inevitably led to higher prices for the consumer." BBC Europe correspondent Jonny Dymond said European officials were aware of the sensitivity of the issue and were keen to point out they would not consider reintroducing animal "cannibalism" - such as feeding pig meat to pigs. Instead the commission's £1m research would investigate the safety of feeding pig meal to chickens and chicken meal to pigs. Officials also say tests should be developed so that animal proteins can be traced in meat to give consumers "a cast-iron guarantee" that the correct meat meal has been used. But Brian Hosie, a vet with the Scottish Agricultural College, said he had not yet seen evidence to show that robust enough practices could be put into place to ensure such feed was safe. "You have also got to be confident that the consumer will be comfortable with this," he added. A spokesman for the Department for Environment and Rural Affairs pointed out that there had been a proposal to relax to ban on meat meal in farm feed proposed in the EU's roadmap for tackling BSE published in 2005. But he added: "There are currently no specific EU proposals relating to pig meat or poultry meat on the table". Asda and Sainsbury's have already ruled out selling meat from livestock fed on animal by-products if the EU-wide ban is lifted. AND AUDIO NEWS How the BSE epidemic affected Britain 08 Dec 06 | Health vCJD 'may develop over 50 years' 22 Jun 06 | Health Farmers welcome end to beef ban 08 Mar 06 | UK 'Human remains link' to BSE cases 01 Sep 05 | Science/Nature UK beef 'banned in 84 countries' 05 Apr 05 | UK in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6713139.stm | UN warning over global ice loss 4 June 2007, 09:57 GMT 10:57 UK warning over global ice loss A warming world will affect all corners of the globe, the UN warns Hundreds of millions of livelihoods will be affected by declining snow and ice cover as a result of global warming, a UN report has warned. The risks facing people included losing access to drinking water, and rising sea levels, the study concluded. The findings were published by the UN's Environment Programme (Unep). Unep chief Achim Steiner said the report showed that time was running out for political leaders to reach a global agreement on curbing emissions. Mr Steiner made his call for action at the launch of the UN Global Outlook for Ice and Snow report, which was being held in Tromso, Norway. Melting of snow and ice will in itself have severe consequences on nature and society "The report underlines that the fate of the world's snowy and icy places in a climatically challenged world should be cause for concern in every ministry, boardroom and living room across the world," he said. "The missing link is universal political action. Today's report should empower the public to take their leaders to task [and] should empower them to ask how much hotter it has to get before we act." The study warns of a range of threats that could destabilise ecosystems around the world, with potentially devastating consequences for hundreds of millions of people. Melting glaciers in Asia's mountains could affect an estimated 40% of the world's population, who rely on ice melt for crop irrigation and drinking water. It added that rising temperatures were already resulting in the thawing of permafrost in places such as Siberia. This was leading to the release into the atmosphere of methane, a potent greenhouse gas. The fate of the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets, which hold almost all of the planet's freshwater ice, needed to be better understood, the UN publication urged. It said that if emissions of greenhouse gases continued unabated, the massive ice sheets were likely to become unstable as the world continued to warm. Without taking measures to mitigate sea level rise, an estimated 145 million people, primarily in Asia, would be exposed to the risk of flooding. The UN said that the International Polar Year, a 24-month global scientific study of the polar regions, would help shed light on how climate change is altering the ice dynamics in these regions. The authors also warned that less ice and snow cover was leading to more of the Sun's energy being absorbed by the land and the sea, rather than being reflected back into space. They said this "positive feedback" could accelerate global warming and result in more abrupt shifts in the climate. Norway's Environment Minister, Helen Bjoernoey, said the comprehensive study into the state of the world's snow and ice presented a bleak prognosis. "To me, it is particularly alarming to realise climate change can be a reinforcing process - global warming results in further global warming," the minister observed. "As documented in the report, melting of snow and ice will in itself have severe consequences on nature and society." out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC UN Global Outlook for Ice and Snow unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6710613.stm | Japan threat to exit whaling body 1 June 2007, 05:31 GMT 06:31 UK threat to exit whaling body Environment correspondent, BBC News website, Anchorage, Alaska A Japanese decision to leave the IWC would be a major blow Japan will consider walking away from the International Whaling Commission and setting up a rival organisation. It was especially irked by the refusal of anti-whaling countries to discuss a small amount of commercial whaling by four Japanese coastal communities. Japan has made similar statements in previous years. Environmental groups say the meeting paid too little attention to important issues such as the number of cetaceans hit by ships, and climate change. After securing a narrow majority of members for last year's meeting - the first majority in 20 years - pro-whaling countries again found themselves in the minority here, and lost a number of key votes. A recruitment campaign by European and South American countries over the last year brought more members into the IWC to vote for the anti-whaling bloc. After initial signals that both sides were looking for dialogue and co-operation, the commission closed its four-day annual meeting with familiar acrimony in its later stages. Japan's priority for this 59th IWC meeting was to secure a small commercial catch of minke whales for four of its coastal communities with a history and culture of whaling. Japan says its whale hunt is for scientific, not commercial, reasons Anti-whaling countries regarded this as a breach of the 21-year moratorium on commercial hunting. The Japanese delegation said the reluctance of anti-whaling nations to discuss a way forward was a disappointment. "We were not expecting only polite language and dialogue, but the first steps to a mutually acceptable compromise, which we did not see," said a strained-looking Joji Morishita, Japan's alternate (deputy) whaling commissioner. Japan had offered in return to consider reviewing its plan to include humpback whales, a priority issue for New Zealand and Australia, in its Antarctic hunting programme which it conducts in the name of scientific research. Mr Morishita suggested that after Australia's and New Zealand's refusal to talk about a compromise, the humpback hunt would go ahead, though possibly with some unspecified revisions. We're greatly interested in the idea of holding a preparatory meeting setting up a conservation and management organisation for cetaceans which... could be a replacement for IWC A Japanese decision to leave the IWC would be a major blow to the organisation's relevance, as it is now the world's major whaling nation. Some conservation groups see the threat as a bargaining tool. Another of Japan's alternate commissioners, Akira Nakamae, declared that establishing a rival organisation was a possibility. "We're greatly interested in the idea of holding a preparatory meeting setting up a conservation and management organisation for cetaceans which... could be a replacement for IWC," he said. However, with the IWC enshrined as the world's sovereign body on whaling, it is not clear what the status of such a new body might be. Conservation groups were generally pleased with the passing of a resolution re-affirming the commercial whaling moratorium, and with its condemnation of scientific hunting. People on both sides of the debate talk about their views But some said issues crucial to whale welfare had been allocated far too little time. "No time was spent discussing the 3,288 cetaceans that have died worldwide during the course of the meeting in Anchorage because of human impacts such as ship strikes, pollution, bycatch and climate change," said Junichi Sato of Greenpeace. Some of the most threatened cetaceans such as the baiji or Yangtze River dolphin, which scientists have declared "effectively extinct", do not come under the IWC's mandate. Of the species that do, the most endangered are the north Pacific and north Atlantic right whales, which now number a few hundred each. Populations were brought low through hunting, but the main threat now comes from being hit by ships. Many delegates and observers of various viewpoints believe the IWC needs urgent reform. The IWC is enshrined as the world's sovereign body on whaling Members agreed to hold a special meeting in about six months' time to examine how to take things forward. The Netherlands has been a prime mover behind reform attempts, and its commissioner Giuseppe Raaphorst saw reasons for optimism. "We still have to do some work to get closer to each other," he told BBC News. "And I hope that we don't just talk about our principles, but make practical arrangements to get control over whaling." Mr Morishita said Japan had few hopes for the special meeting, but would contribute if it could. Another issue resolved on the final day was Denmark's controversial application for an expansion of subsistence hunting by Inuit communities in its territory of Greenland. By a narrow majority the meeting approved a small increase in the minke catch, and, with restrictions, the inclusion of bowhead whales for the first time. A final sign of Japan's disappointment was the withdrawal of its bid to host the 2009 IWC meeting in Yokohama. It said it had looked forward to hosting a meeting of an organisation which worked normally. AND AUDIO NEWS Whales being caught by hunters Japan's Antarctic whale hunt is condemned Deadlock at Greenland whale plan Anti-whaling lobby rebuffs Japan Conciliation talk at whaling meet Blue whales 'making a comeback' Row washes over Japanese Cultural claim to whale hunting Cruelty and the kitchen Under the skin of whaling science Temples of the whale Did Greens help kill the whale? An overview of some of the world's most vulnerable species Moving whaling debate forward unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/south_of_scotland/6704091.stm | South of Scotland | Sightings hope for rare farm bird 30 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 UK hope for rare farm bird The corn bunting is thought to have returned to the Borders - picture by Tom Marshall A small group of rare farmland birds has been found in the Borders - years after conservationists believed that just one of them remained in the area. The corn bunting - known as the "fat bird of the barley" - was once a common sight across Scotland and the UK. In recent decades, however, its numbers had fallen due to changes in traditional farming practices. Conservationists have urged the public to call them if the large, sparrow-like bird is spotted in the region. Small populations of the corn bunting still exist in eastern Scotland and the Western Isles. The corn bunting may not be the most colourful of birds, but as it often perches conspicuously on wires such as telephone lines or fences when singing, it can be easily spotted It was thought that its fate in the Borders had been sealed after a single calling male was reported by a landowner in the Lamberton area in 2003. However, this month Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) officers - with the help of a local volunteer and landowner - discovered two singing male corn buntings and a presumed female at a site in the eastern Borders. The find has raised hopes that the species may yet see a recovery in the region. The public and farmers in particular, have been asked to keep an eye out for the rare birds, which are easily noted by their distinctive song and behaviour. "The corn bunting may not be the most colourful of birds, but as it often perches conspicuously on wires such as telephone lines or fences when singing, it can be easily spotted," said Lisa Webb of the RSPB. "The song of the corn bunting has been likened to jangling a set of keys, and is quite different to the smaller and more colourful yellowhammer." A recording of the song and images of the bird have been placed on the RSPB's website. sounded for farmland birds 18 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Stooks 'vital' to bird's survival 04 Aug 06 | Highlands and Islands Farmers urged to help rare bird 08 Feb 06 | Humber UK birds 'hit by climate change' 19 Aug 05 | UK SOUTH OF SCOTLAND STORIES Penalty for poison case gamekeeper Schools introduce text alert plan Catholic primary plans progress family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6717671.stm | Asia-Pacific | China unveils climate change plan 4 June 2007, 10:22 GMT 11:22 UK unveils climate change plan China stresses that economic progress must come first China has unveiled its first national plan for climate change, saying it is intent on tackling the problem but not at the expense of economic development. The 62-page report reiterated China's aim to reduce energy use by a fifth before 2010 and increase the amount of renewable energy it produces. But it also repeated Beijing's view that responsibility for climate change rests with rich westernised countries. The report comes ahead of a G8 meeting that will focus on global warming. Germany, which is hosting the meeting of industrialised nations, is calling for a new UN protocol on climate change to replace the Kyoto pact when it expires in 2012. China's role in the debate is crucial, as many analysts believe it could overtake the US this year as the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases. China's new national plan on climate change offered few new targets on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but outlined how it intended to meet the goals it has already set, analysts say. This includes the use of more wind, nuclear and hydro power as well as making coal-fired plants more efficient, the document outlined. Between 1994 and 2004, China's greenhouse gas emissions grew by 4% a year China currently depends on coal to meet two-thirds of its energy needs It hopes to raise its use of renewable energy from 7% to 10% by 2010 China may overtake the US as the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases by the end of this year But it also stressed that the country's first priority remained "sustainable development and poverty eradication". "China is a developing country. Although we do not have the obligation to cut emissions, it does not mean we do not want to shoulder our share of responsibilities," Ma Kai, chairman of China's National Development and Reform Commission, said. "We must reconcile the need for development with the need for environmental protection," he said, adding that China wanted to "blaze a new path to industrialisation". He said rich countries were responsible for most of the greenhouse gases produced over the past century, and had an "unshirkable responsibility" to do more to tackle the problem. "The international community should respect the developing countries' right to develop," he added. The plan is a strong declaration of intentions, but so far China has missed almost every environmental target it has set itself, the BBC's Quentin Sommerville in Shanghai says. Climate change is expected to be fiercely debated when China's President Hu Jintao and other industrialised leaders meet in Germany for the G8 on Wednesday. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has urged them to agree firm targets for cutting polluting emissions. President Hu will attend the G8 summit this week In a BBC interview, he said it was now up to the richest countries to show leadership on the issue. "It will be tragic if we don't take any action," he said. "My main message is that to galvanise this political will at the leaders level so that we can take necessary action." The UN secretary-general has made tackling climate change one of his top priorities, and called for a meeting of world leaders on the subject in September. He wants the UN to be in the lead when it comes to agreeing what should replace the Kyoto Protocol, the current agreement curbing greenhouse gases, when it expires in 2012. US President George W Bush - whose country is the only industrialised nation apart from Australia not to ratify the protocol - has proposed uniting a group of big emitters who would set non-binding targets by the end of next year. But some analysts say this has been interpreted as a way of undercutting other initiatives - for example by the G8 or United Nations. AND AUDIO NEWS The Chinese reaction to plans to cut energy use Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC China unveils climate change plan Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Key Khmer Rouge trial talks held family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6712443.stm | Nasa names shuttle launch date 1 June 2007, 13:50 GMT 14:50 UK names shuttle launch date Atlantis should launch on 8 June After weeks of delay, space shuttle Atlantis has finally been given a launch date for its mission to the International Space Station (ISS). US space agency officials said the blast-off was scheduled for 8 June from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. The orbiter will deliver new equipment to the space station. The mission was due to take place in March but repairs had to be made to the shuttle's external tank, which was damaged by a hailstorm in February. Golf-ball sized hail stones hit the launcher vehicle system, causing hundreds of dents and minor surface damage to the tank's foam covering and to heat shields on the orbiter itself. Since the destruction of Atlantis's sister shuttle Columbia and the death of its crew in 2003, shuttle damage has been a major cause of concern for Nasa. Columbia's heat shield was damaged during its launch and the ship was destroyed as it returned through the atmosphere 16 days later. After extensive repairs, Nasa is now confident Atlantis is ready to fly. "We're good to go," said Wayne Hale, Nasa's space shuttle programme manager. "We have no show stoppers ahead of us." A crew of seven will be travelling in Atlantis Atlantis will have a crew of seven: Rick Sturckow will command the mission and Lee Archambault will serve as Atlantis' pilot. Mission specialists James Reilly, Patrick Forrester, Steven Swanson, John Olivas and Flight Engineer Clayton Anderson make up the rest of the team. Mr Anderson will replace Sunita Williams on the ISS, who will be returning to Earth aboard Atlantis. The crew will be installing a new backbone segment and a set of solar wings on the space station, which is currently being expanded. Nasa must fly at least 13 more missions to finish constructing the orbiting outpost before retiring its fleet of shuttles in 2010. However, the delays to Atlantis' mission have meant that Nasa will have to reduce its 2007 programme from five to four launches. graphics: Space Station 30 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Nasa delays Europe's lab launch 18 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Nasa aims for June shuttle launch 11 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Atlantis orbiter rolled off pad 05 Mar 07 | Americas unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6706607.stm | Recovery for warbler population 31 May 2007, 02:44 GMT 03:44 UK for warbler population Restoring heathlands is vital to the warblers' recovery, say the RSPB A vulnerable bird is experiencing an extraordinary population revival in the UK, RSPB figures have indicated. The latest survey of Dartford warblers shows that numbers have soared by 70% since the last count in 1994. The bird is vulnerable to changes in climate and two harsh winters left just 11 pairs of the bird in 1963. It has returned to Wales, the Midlands and East Anglia and now there are more than 3,000 pairs - the highest tally for more than 40 years. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds says the recent rise in numbers - to an estimated 3,208 pairs from 1,890 in 1994 - is due both to milder winters and improvements in the conservation of heathland habitats. But campaigners say more work is needed to protect and restore heathlands in order to cement the warbler's recovery. The warbler has been returning to its former ranges "This survey is fantastic news for a very vulnerable bird, particularly because it has moved to higher ground not used by Dartford warblers for many years," said Simon Wotton, research biologist at the RSPB. "Warmer winters mean the birds are likely to push even further north but they can only do that if there are heathland sites available, which are protected from development. "If the government is to help wildlife adapt to climate change it should be assigning more land for the creation of habitats to help birds like these." But the bird remains vulnerable in some areas of its range and, on the Thames Basin heaths in Berkshire, Hampshire and Surrey, numbers fell by 40% from 2005 to 2006. The reasons for this remain unclear. The RSPB said the losses emphasised the importance of protection and management of the warbler's existing strongholds. It says the creation of new heathland sites is vital to help Dartford warblers expand their range. The Dartford warbler survey was a joint effort between the RSPB, Natural England, Forestry Commission England and The British Trust for Ornithology. 'still at risk from homes' 27 Feb 07 | England Plea to save heaths from housing 21 Nov 06 | England Mysterious decline of heath birds 09 Aug 06 | Devon unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6709345.stm | Secrets of Sun-like star probed 1 June 2007, 07:54 GMT 08:54 UK of Sun-like star probed Altair is a rapidly rotating star and is elongated in shape The first image of the surface of a Sun-like star has been captured. It confirms that Altair, one of the brightest stars in the night sky, is a rapidly spinning, non-spherical body. Until now, telescopes have only been powerful enough to zoom in on the Sun or on rare giant stars outside of the Solar System. But researchers, writing in the journal Science, say they got around this problem by combining the light from four separate telescopes. We're testing the theories of how stars work in much more detail than ever before Lead researcher John Monnier, an astronomer at the University of Michigan, US, said: "What may not be obvious to most people is that until now we have not really had the zoom-up capability with our telescopes to make images of stars that are like the Sun." Compared with the Sun, which can be imaged in spectacular detail, and some rare gas giants, stars outside of the Solar System simply appear as specks of light through even the most powerful telescopes. Professor Monnier said: "Even Altair, which is pretty close at 15 light-years away and very bright, would be very challenging to zoom-up on. In order to do this, you would need a telescope that is about 300m (1,000ft) across - and that is a long way beyond our engineering capabilities." To image Altair, which is the brightest star in the Aquila constellation (The Eagle) and clearly visible to the naked eye, the researchers harnessed the power of four telescopes at Georgia State University's Center for High Resolution Angular Astronomy (Chara). Altair appears as a speck from other telescopes Professor Monnier told the BBC News website: "By combining and processing the light from the four smaller telescopes, using a new instrument called the Michigan Infrared Combiner, we are creating an image as if it is coming from a much bigger telescope." The result was a detailed surface image of Altair. Previous research had suggested that this bright star was spinning very rapidly - about 60 times faster than our home star. But until now, the effect of the rapid rotations on its shape was not clear. Professor Monnier said: "Computer models had given very basic predictions of what happens if you have a star that is spinning very fast, but our image definitely confirmed that this star was elongated in shape." The Sun has been imaged in spectacular detail The centrifugal forces created as the star was spinning were flattening it into an oval shape, he said. However, the image also revealed that the amount of distortion and changes in surface temperature at the equator differed from current models. Professor Monnier said: "Since we have a lot more data and the images are very powerful, we can do the modelling again to give a new level of detail. "We're testing the theories of how stars work in much more detail than ever before." hunters spy distant haul 29 May 07 | Science/Nature Spacecraft return 3D Sun pictures 23 Apr 07 | Science/Nature Probe's close-up of Sun eruption 29 Nov 06 | Science/Nature unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6710527.stm | New EU chemical law takes effect 1 June 2007, 00:36 GMT 01:36 UK EU chemical law takes effect The new requirements will be phased in over the next 11 years Legislation requiring the safety testing of tens of thousands of chemicals - many in everyday use - has come into effect across the EU. For the first time, it will be up to industry, rather than the regulatory authorities, to prove that chemicals are safe. But environmental and consumer groups say the new rules do not go far enough. About 30,000 chemicals are covered by the new rules - from paints to flame retardants to fragrances in shampoos. Safety data will be required for all of them. It does not damage European industry; on the contrary, others will follow EU Commission vice president The most hazardous - chemicals which can cause cancer or changes in genetic material - will have to undergo further testing. If there is a safer alternative, producers will have to substitute it, unless there is a strong case for continuing to use the existing chemical. But environmental campaigners say the new rules, known as REACH, leave too many loopholes. The new requirements will be phased in between now and 2018. The most hazardous chemicals will have to be registered first, along with those used in the largest quantities. Producers are already working together to share the cost of testing, which the European Commission reckons at up to 10bn euros (£7bn) spread over 11 years. But it says that is offset by the benefits to health and the environment: 97bn euros (£66bn) saved in health costs over the next three decades. AND AUDIO NEWS Campaigner calls for even tighter regulations EU-Serbia talks 'resume in June' EU urged to relax farm feed rules New EU chemical law takes effect A guide to the EU's 'Reach' law on chemicals Brussels' quest for the green car EU attacked for 'inefficient' aid Sarkozy excites and worries EU EU fails to excite Bulgarians Mark Mardell on the US plan to bring its missile shield to Europe THE UK AND EUROPE UK beach hygiene hailed in report Migrants 'want to settle in UK' A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared Launch date for iPhone revealed family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6709627.stm | Upright walking 'began in trees' 31 May 2007, 21:33 GMT 22:33 UK walking 'began in trees' Our upright walking may be related to behaviour shown by orangutans The ancestors of humans began walking upright while they were still living in trees - not out on open land, according to a new theory. The traditional view is of bipedalism evolving gradually from the four-legged "knuckle-walking" displayed by chimpanzees and gorillas today. Now, a study published in the journal Science disputes this idea. The British authors of the study say that upright walking was always a feature of great ape behaviour. Humans inherited it without ever passing through a knuckle-walking phase. They believe that knuckle-walking evolved only recently as a way of getting around the forest floor. Susannah Thorpe, Robin Crompton and Roger Holder came to their conclusions after analysing the movement of wild orangutans, which spend most of their lives in trees. The big problem is: what was the selective advantage for that first hominid that stood upright? Daniel Lieberman, Harvard University They found that orangutans used upright locomotion to fetch food from the small branches of trees and to cross directly from one tree to another. "Both access to fruits and crossing gaps in the trees would require an ability to navigate very thin, terminal tree branches which are liable to bend under body mass," said Professor Robin Crompton, from the University of Liverpool. "The logical conclusion from the environmental, fossil, and experimental evidence is that upright, straight-legged walking originally evolved as an adaptation to tree-dwelling." They suggest the shift made by our ancestors to a terrestrial lifestyle came about as climate change thinned out their forest habitat. In response, these ancient ape-like creatures, or hominids, may have abandoned the high canopy for the forest floor. Here, they remained bipedal and began eating food from the ground or from smaller trees. Professor Crompton explained that orangutans walking upright on springy branches act much like athletes running on springy tracks - they use extended postures of knee and hip to give them straighter legs. The researchers point out that some of the earliest fossil human ancestors combined lower limbs that were adapted for upright walking with an upper body that seems suited to climbing trees. There is also evidence these bipedal creatures lived in a closed forest environment, not the savannah habitat that would have required them to routinely move on the ground. Daniel Lieberman, a biological anthropologist from Harvard University, US, told BBC News: "I think it's a neat paper; it's always terrific when people think creatively about the origins of human bipedalism. But it's not going to be the last word. "The big problem is - what was the selective advantage for that first hominid that stood upright? We know very little about the context in which that occurred." Dr Lieberman also questioned the idea that the kind of locomotion displayed by chimps and gorillas must have evolved only recently. Chimps, gorillas and humans are more closely related to one another than they are to orangutans. "The relationships between the apes are not in question," he said, "unless all those similarities between chimps and gorillas are independently evolved, then the inference is inescapable that the last common ancestor of chimps and humans must have been like a chimp or gorilla." AND AUDIO NEWS Fossils fill gap in human lineage 12 Apr 06 | Science/Nature Chad skull 'leans to human line' 06 Apr 05 | Science/Nature Skull find sparks controversy 12 Jul 02 | Sci/Tech Scientists delight in ancient skull find 10 Jul 02 | Sci/Tech 'Oldest' ape-man fossils revealed 07 Feb 01 | Sci/Tech unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6689541.stm | Moving the whaling debate forward 25 May 2007, 09:46 GMT 10:46 UK the whaling debate forward By the Rt Hon Sir Geoffrey Palmer The debate over commercial whaling is brought to the table once again at the International Whaling Commission's annual meeting. But, Geoffrey Palmer argues in this week's Green Room, there may be ways to avoid the usual stalemate. It is devoutly to be hoped that light rather than heat emerges from that discussion Send us your comments Guide to the Great Whales Since the commercial whaling moratorium went into effect in 1986, more than 29,000 whales have been killed under objection and special permit whaling. The Japanese government issues special permits, as it is able to do under the whaling convention, allowing hunting for scientific research; Norway and Iceland use an International Whaling Commission (IWC) regulation allowing exemptions from the moratorium. For nearly 15 years the IWC annual meetings have been dominated by discussions on how to devise a scheme that allows commercial whaling to resume but properly protects the stocks. A 75% majority is required in order for commercial whaling to resume under the whaling convention. But at present, the IWC member nations are divided over this issue. One block of nations wishes to see commercial whaling resume even if those nations do not engage in it. Another block does not want to see commercial whaling resume under any circumstances. A middle group wants a compromise to be reached. Debate has been highly divisive and anything but diplomatic. No agreement has been reached. This debate has now become so intense that efforts are being made to cast around for solutions. The Pew Charitable Trusts, with the support of the United Nations Environment Programme (Unep), sponsored a meeting at the UN in April, in New York, entitled Symposium on the State of the Conservation of Whales in the 21st Century, which I chaired. The meeting had representation from around the world and had about equal numbers of people with IWC experience, NGO experience, and environmental experience but not with whales. This mix did turn out to produce new perspectives. For two days, participants in the conference looked at four main themes: the state of whale stocks and the science relating to them developments in international ocean law diplomatic means that may be available to address the impasse suggestions for the future What emerged from these deliberations was a menu of options that may offer a way forward. One block of nations wishes to see commercial whaling resume No coalition of views around any single option emerged, but new suggestions were made that had not been heard before. Many are worthy of further exploration. There was a view that the current arrangements, contentious as they are, may be the best available means of protecting whales. According to that view, present policy settings should be maintained and efforts should be made to continue a further conservation agenda within the IWC. Indeed, throughout the conference, there were no suggestions that the IWC could be dispensed with, although there were many ideas on how to cure its afflictions. Pro-conservation countries consult with their pro-conservation NGOs One of these was that a number of changes should be made to the whaling convention in order to remove or restrict the use of scientific whaling. Another was to have better enforcement of the convention with a new dispute settlement provision and no capacity to make reservations to the new rules or opt out. There were suggestions that commercial whaling should resume on a limited basis, provided that scientific whaling is abandoned and there is a ban on the international trade in whale meat. Whaling in sanctuaries (large areas where whales are protected by a decision of the International Whaling Commission, such as the Southern Seas) would have to be phased out as well. It was widely agreed that there needed to be a more diplomatic atmosphere within the IWC. One complexity of whaling politics is that - although it is governments who make decisions - they need to take into account the feelings of public opinion, which are heavily politically and emotionally charged on both sides. For every important step, pro-conservation countries consult with their pro-conservation NGOs. So do the whaling countries with the representatives of their pro-whaling interests. There were also propositions that attempts be made to settle the problems by a "higher" authority such as an independent world commission, a ministerial summit held on the 60th anniversary of the IWC, or a mutually agreed binding mediation or arbitration procedure. Others thought an international diplomatic conference under the auspices of the UN should be convened, or an independent group of eminent persons be assembled to make recommendations. Another idea was that the whaling issue should be integrated into broader oceans, biodiversity and species protection programmes. There has to be a better way forward There were thoughts that research be conducted into the economics of whaling; whale watching means that whales are worth more alive than dead. The question of subsidies for whaling should also be explored. One strong suggestion was that new approaches to conflict management within the IWC should be explored. This case was presented in a most compelling fashion. Only time will tell whether solutions will emerge to what has become an increasingly pressing diplomatic problem. The future of the IWC will be debated as a separate agenda item for the first time this year at the annual meeting in Anchorage, Alaska. It will be a good opportunity to test the ideas that arose in this meeting. I am eager to hear the response from all countries. It is devoutly to be hoped that light rather than heat emerges from that discussion. So many members of the IWC are unhappy with the current situation that there has to be a better way forward. Sir Geoffrey was Prime Minister of New Zealand from 1989-1990. He is the president of the Law Commission in New Zealand and that country's Commissioner to the IWC. The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website. series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Nations must stop arguing and start talking about whaling New bid for UN climate control? Climate action 'needs devolution' Young minds, go for it! New York Pew Symposium unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6704549.stm | Great apes 'facing climate peril' 30 May 2007, 15:03 GMT 16:03 UK apes 'facing climate peril' Climate change may be putting great ape species at risk Great apes are facing an "inevitable crisis" arising from climate change, a leading conservationist has warned. Dr Richard Leakey said that growing pressure to switch from fossil fuels to biofuels could result in further destruction of the animals' habitats. The chair of WildlifeDirect called for immediate action and proposed financial incentives to save forests from destruction as one possible solution. He said: "Climate change will undoubtedly impact everything we know." The implications for biodiversity are there for all to see The great apes - gorillas, chimps, bonobos and orangutans - are already under threat from habitat destruction, poaching, logging and disease. The Great Apes Survival Project (Grasp), a United Nations Environment Programme (Unep) initiative, has warned that great apes are at risk of imminent extinction unless drastic action is taken. In advance of a talk at the UK's Royal Geographical Society, Dr Leakey told journalists that climate threats now had to be added to the mix. The former director of the Kenyan Wildlife Service said: "I am concerned about the pressures on the land as a result of changes to the climate, but also the pressures on the land in terms of people's reaction to climate change and the shift away from fossil fuels to biofuels." The great apes: Status check He said that "great swathes" of forest had already been destroyed in South Asia to make way for palm oil plantations, and this had had a dramatic impact on orangutans, which currently number 50,000. Palm oil is used in vegetable oil, soaps, shampoos, industrial substances, but it has also been proposed as an alternative to fossil fuel. Dr Leakey said the growing pressure to turn to biofuels such as palm oil could place the great apes' habitat in further peril. He added: "People shrug their shoulders and say what are poor countries to do if they cannot exploit their natural resources, and I can understand this, but it is not sustainable the way it is going." There is also evidence that deforestation would further drive climate change itself by raising the amount of greenhouse gas carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, Dr Leakey said. Dr Leakey suggested "biodiversity credits" could be a possible solution. "Being paid for not cutting down indigenous forests and getting credit for that is a further step that builds on the idea of getting paid for planting new forests," he explained. "It does seem that we cannot stop development, but it does also seem that perhaps we can stop development where critical species are threatened, and perhaps there could be a price added to that." Dr Leakey is a prominent conservationist in Kenya He said that there could be creative ways to solve the problems that climate change could bring, but added that it was crucial that action was taken now. Dr Leakey told journalists: "Could the great apes go because of climate change? Yes. Possibly not within our lifetime, but what about in 100 or 200 years? "Climate change is measurable and is happening at rate that is almost unprecedented from what we know in previous history, and the implications for biodiversity are there for all to see." Richard Leakey is a palaeo-anthropologist, responsible for extensive fossil finds related to human evolution, and renowned Kenyan conservationist. His parents, Louis and Mary Leakey, were prominent palaeontologists, finding and excavating key sites around Africa. Green energy or grim reaper? 22 Sep 06 | Science/Nature Climate risk 'to million species' 07 Jan 04 | Science/Nature Genes record orangutans' decline 24 Jan 06 | Science/Nature Orangutans 'may die out by 2025' 12 Jan 04 | Science/Nature Climate fear for African elephant 07 May 05 | Science/Nature Declaration signed on great apes 12 Sep 05 | Science/Nature Apes 'extinct in a generation' 01 Sep 05 | Science/Nature Profile: Dr Richard Leakey 15 May 01 | Africa unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm 4 June 2007, 19:25 GMT 20:25 UK China unveils climate change plan China sets out its strategy for tackling climate change, but stresses it will not sacrifice economic growth. US seeks new greenhouse goals Blair and Merkel meet before G8 Investors seek clarity on climate Nations meet to protect wildlife The fate of some of the world's animals and plants may be decided at a conference on wildlife trade. UN warning over global ice loss Hundreds of millions of livelihoods will be affected by the world's declining ice and snow cover, the UN warns. Boost to artery block treatment Nuclear reactor secrets revealed Nasa names shuttle launch date Japan threat to exit whaling body Gamekeeper punished for poisoning ALSO IN THE NEWS Apple reveals launch date of much-hyped iPhone Finds that shine a surprising light on the pre-history of London EU 'failing to match its words with actions' on climate change Tourists brave war-torn Chad to see the country's wild side VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Ivory tops endangered species trade talks Lula's hopes for the Amazon Orphaned gorilla finds family Howard pledges climate plan More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet Upright walking 'began in trees' Secrets of Sun-like star probed New EU chemical law takes effect Space agencies will 'co-ordinate' Days ahead crucial for Mars rover Consumers 'back BSE feed ban' Great apes 'facing climate peril' Freed Chinese panda dies in wild Sightings hope for rare farm bird Recovery for warbler population Environmental opinion and debate EU 'must walk its climate talk' Nuclear reactor secrets revealed Nuclear reactor secrets revealed Upright walking 'began in trees' Kew Gardens camera to follow the UK's 'hottest year' A guide to the EU's new 'Reach' law on chemicals From outer space to the atom's inner workings ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
