http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6640233.stm | Grants cut for home energy scheme 9 May 2007, 17:10 GMT 18:10 cut for home energy scheme About 240 micro-turbines have been installed under the scheme The government's decision to reduce individual grants for homeowners wanting to produce their own renewable energy has been criticised. Changes to the Low Carbon Buildings Programme mean that future applicants will be limited to £2,500 for domestic micro-generation projects. Previously, grants of up to £15,000 and £5,000 were available for solar energy and micro-turbine schemes respectively. Ministers said the changes would enable more people to participate. Demand for the scheme, introduced last year, has been intense with monthly allocations of money being fully subscribed within minutes. Grants worth £6.8m have been awarded so far and a further £11.9m in funding is available. There is no justification for the decision in terms of strategy or support for domestic renewable electricity market Seb Berry, Solar Century However, less than £3.5m of the money has been spent, following planning hold-ups, delays to building schedules and flawed applications. This has led some people to claim that the scheme - a key plank in the government's efforts to promote energy efficiency - is in crisis. The application process was suspended in March pending a review, which has resulted in a cut in individual grants, a reduction in the time people have to finish projects and a revamp of the application process. Companies involved in micro-generation criticised the decision to reduce individual grant levels, one describing it as "unnecessary and baffling". "There is no justification for the decision in terms of strategy or support for domestic renewable electricity market," said Seb Berry, external affairs director of Solar Century, which designs and installs solar panels. With the typical cost of buying and installing a solar panel system about £7,000, Mr Berry said the changes would make the project unviable for many people. "You are asking individual homeowners to find £4,000 to £5,000 of their own money." Bu the government defended alterations to the scheme, saying it would ensure more projects were completed and help domestic renewables become more self-sustaining. "We can't fund everybody in the country who wants to do it," said a DTI spokesman. "We have a limited amount of money and we want to spread that as far as we can." law eased for turbines 04 Apr 07 | Politics DTI rethinks green home subsidies 22 Mar 07 | Business High street solar panels on sale 01 Aug 06 | Technology Department of Trade and Industry 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6633979.stm | Middle East | King Herod's ancient tomb 'found' 8 May 2007, 16:23 GMT 17:23 Herod's ancient tomb 'found' Archaeologists believe this is the podium of Herod's tomb An Israeli archaeologist says he has found the tomb of King Herod, the ruler of Judea while it was under Roman administration in the first century BC. After a search of more than 30 years, Ehud Netzer of the Hebrew University says he has located the tomb at Herodium, a site south of Jerusalem. Herod was noted in the New Testament for his Massacre of the Innocents. Told of Jesus' birth, Herod ordered all children under two in Bethlehem to be killed, the Gospel of Matthew said. According to the New Testament, Jesus' father Joseph was warned of the threat in a dream and fled with his wife and child to Egypt. "When I realised it was the tomb there was great happiness," said Prof Netzer, who has worked at the Herodium site since 1972. Roman-appointed King of Judea from around 37 BC to 4 BC A bloody ruler who killed political rivals Ordered the Massacre of Innocents to protect his throne, the New Testament says Behind ambitious building projects including expanding Second Jewish Temple and walls around Jerusalem "Everyone has an interest in the Holy Land and Herod's tomb is part of that story." It was an ancient staircase built for Herod's funeral procession - described in detail by First Century historian Josephus Flavius - that led Prof Netzer's team to the hill-top burial site. "The monumental stairs were built specifically for the funeral," Prof Netzer said. At the site, archaeologists found a smashed limestone sarcophagus that, when whole, would have been around 2.5m (8ft) long. Ornate rosette decorations on the fragments alerted the team to the coffin's significance. No bones were found at the site. Prof Netzer said that they had likely been removed by Jewish rebels who fought against Rome between 66 and 72 AD. The site at Herodium is in the West Bank, occupied by Israel since 1967. Palestinians officials have in the past complained about what they see as the theft and commercial exploitation of their artefacts. If the find is confirmed, this will rank as a major archaeological discovery, BBC Jerusalem correspondent Tim Franks says. Experts have always believed that Herod was buried somewhere within the palace complex he had constructed on a flattened hilltop in the Judean desert, but they had repeatedly struggled to find any evidence to back up their theories. Herod was appointed "King of the Jews" by the Roman authorities and ruled Judea from 37 BC until his death in around 4 BC. He is known for his expansion of the Second Jewish Temple and the construction of walls around the Old City of Jerusalem. He also built the fortress of Masada, which became the last stand of Jewish rebels in 73 AD. AND AUDIO NEWS The site where Herod's tomb is believed to be In Jerusalem archaeology is politics 09 Feb 07 | Middle East Herod's grisly death probed by doctors 26 Jan 02 | Health BBC Religion: King Herod MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6638017.stm Scientists compile 'book of life' 9 May 2007, 18:20 GMT 19:20 compile 'book of life' All known species including the zorilla will be included Long-snouted aardvarks will rub shoulders with skunk-like zorillas in an ambitious plan to provide a virtual snapshot of life on Earth. The Encyclopedia of Life project aims to detail all 1.8 million known plant and animal species in a net archive. Individual species pages will include photographs, video, sound and maps, collected and written by experts. The archive, to be built over 10 years, could help conservation efforts as well as being a useful tool for education. "The Encyclopedia of Life will provide valuable biodiversity and conservation information to anyone, anywhere, at any time," said Dr James Edwards, executive director of the $100m (£50m) project. "[It] will ultimately make high-quality, well-organized information available on an unprecedented level." The vast database will initially concentrate on animals, plants and fungi with microbes to follow. Fossil species may eventually be added. There could be up to 100 million species in the world To begin with, information will be harvested from existing databases, such as FishBase which already contains details of 29,900 species. "One of the big tasks in the first six months will be to identify which groups we will focus on after that," Graham Higley of London's Natural History Museum, one of the partners in the project, told the BBC News website. As the archive grows, it will become a "web of life" that will represent the relationships between different species on Earth. During this gestation, teams of scientists will pore over it. "They will be looking to identify species where the information is thin - and it is on an awful lot of species - to make it more comprehensive and usable," said Mr Higley. The database has been in development since January 2006, although web pages dedicated to individual species have been produced ad hoc since the mid 1990s. The scientists involved in the project said that the ability to catalogue millions of entries on the web had only just become possible. "Advances in technology for searching, annotating, and visualising information now permit us - indeed mandate us - to build the Encyclopedia of Life," said Dr Edwards. It could eventually fill with many more species than the original 1.8 million known today. Biologists estimate that there could be anywhere between five and 100 million species on the planet. Other projects have previously attempted to index life on Earth. For example, the Catalogue of Life keeps a database of more than one million species. However, according to Mr Higley, it does not have the level of detail that the proposed Encyclopedia of Life will eventually contain. "It's a list of names," he said. "What it is not is a description of those species." Other databases have taken the identification process one step further. In 2005, scientists launched the Consortium for the Barcode of Life, an ongoing attempt to identify all species through a unique genetic marker system. These "tags" are composed of the order of DNA letters in a particular gene found in mitochondria, the "power units" in cells. The project has so far collected more than 250,000 barcodes and has described more than 27,000 species. intends to tag all life 10 Feb 05 | Science/Nature Science counts species on brink 17 Nov 04 | Science/Nature Mammal rise 'not linked' to dinos 28 Mar 'see new species born' 09 Jun 04 | Science/Nature Scientists hail new 'map of life' 20 Nov 03 | Science/Nature leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6621297.stm European rocket powers to record 4 May 2007, 22:36 GMT 23:36 rocket powers to record The Astra 1L satellite weighed about 4,500kg at launch Europe's Ariane 5 rocket has set a new benchmark for a commercial launch - lifting into orbit a two-satellite payload weighing 9.4 tonnes. The immense, 50m-long vehicle powered away from Kourou in French Guiana at 1929 local time (2229 GMT). The Astra 1L and Galaxy 17 platforms it put in space will deliver TV and other services to Europe and North America. Friday's mission represented the second launch of the year for the Ariane 5 and its 32nd flight overall. The launch was delayed by a day because of poor weather over the spaceport on Thursday. The rocket is the workhorse of Europe's commercial launch service, operated by the French-based Arianespace company. In its heavy-lift, or ECA, configuration, the vehicle produces 13,000 kilonewtons of thrust at launch - equivalent to 20 Concorde jets at take-off. Watching the launch in Kourou was US space agency (Nasa) Administrator Dr Mike Griffin. The Nasa chief came to see the rocket that will begin to supply the International Space Station later this year. Europe is preparing a new cargo ship called the Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV), which will carry 7.5 tonnes of experimental equipment, spare parts, food, air and water to astronauts working on the orbiting outpost. The ATV is designed to ride into space on top of an Ariane 5. Skynet satellite launched 12 Mar sends satellites to orbit 08 Dec leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/wiltshire/6645367.stm | Wiltshire | Tunnel open again at Silbury hill 11 May 2007, 02:11 GMT 03:11 open again at Silbury hill English Heritage is conducting stabilisation work at the site Engineers have reopened a tunnel that goes deep inside the ancient monument of Silbury Hill in Wiltshire. The tunnel, dug in 1968, was the last of many made over the centuries by archaeologists exploring the site. Engineers are planning to stabilise the 5,000-year-old structure, which is believed to be the world's largest man-made prehistoric mound. Archaeologists will also try to unlock the site's ancient secrets and find out how, why and when it was built. Earlier this year, archaeologists found traces of a Roman settlement at the landmark. English Heritage, which is conducting the stabilising work, believes there was a Roman community at Silbury Hill about 2,000 years ago. It says the site may have been a sacred place of pilgrimage. "We don't know exactly what it was for but it was probably part of a ceremonial and sacred landscape which centered on the Avebury henge," said an English Heritage spokeswoman. English Heritage is conducting stabilisation work at the site The 130ft Neolithic mound near Avebury - one of Europe's largest prehistoric monuments - is thought to have been created some 3,000 years earlier. Heavy rains in May 2000 caused substantial damage to the hill, with the collapse of an 18th century shaft. Parts of the ancient site are thought to be collapsing because of the tunnels dug by archaeologists over many centuries. After prising open the tunnel's sealed door on Friday, engineers are expected to spend four months, filling the tunnels with hundreds of tonnes of chalk to stabilise the structure. Archaeologists will also be going into the hill, hoping that modern science can solve the mystery of why the hill was built in the first place. AND AUDIO NEWS A pagan ritual starts the reopening John Kay visits the Hill Leisure, sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Wiltshire Roman clues found at ancient hill 10 Mar 07 | Wiltshire Ancient hill's holes to be filled 28 Nov 05 | Wiltshire Lord pleased over hill walker ban 30 Jun 04 | Wiltshire Stone circle's future mapped out 09 Sep 05 | Somerset BBC History: Roman Britain Silbury Hill - English Heritage open again at Silbury hill MP wants railway operator sacked Bid to create more women bosses
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6636467.stm UN warns on impacts of biofuels 9 May 2007, 08:16 GMT 09:16 warns on impacts of biofuels Plantations for biofuels may threaten forests and wildlife A UN report warns that a hasty switch to biofuels could have major impacts on livelihoods and the environment. Produced by a cross-agency body, UN Energy, the report says that biofuels can bring real benefits. But there can be serious consequences if forests are razed for plantations, if food prices rise and if communities are excluded from ownership, it says. And it concludes that biofuels are more effective when used for heat and power rather than in transport. "Current research concludes that using biomass for combined heat and power (CHP), rather than for transport fuels or other uses, is the best option for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the next decade - and also one of the cheapest," it says. The European Union and the US have recently set major targets for the expansion of biofuels in road vehicles, for which ethanol and biodiesel are seen as the only currently viable alternative to petroleum fuels. The UN report, Sustainable Bioenergy: A Framework for Decision Makers, suggests that biofuels can be a force for good if they are planned well, but can bring adverse consequences if not. "The development of new bioenergy industries could provide clean energy services to millions of people who currently lack them," it concludes, "while generating income and creating jobs in poorer areas of the world." Intensive farming of energy crops demands water and resources But the prices of food, land and agricultural commodities could be driven up, it warns, with major impacts in poorer countries where people spend a much greater share of their incomes on food than in developed nations. On the environmental side, it notes that demand for biofuels has accelerated the clearing of primary forest for palm plantations, particularly in southeast Asia. This destruction of ecosystems which remove carbon from the atmosphere can lead to a net increase in emissions. The report warns too of the impacts on nature: "Use of large-scale mono-cropping could lead to significant biodiversity loss, soil erosion and nutrient leaching." This has been avoided, the report says, in the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo where sugar cane farmers are obliged to leave a percentage of their land as natural reserves. Water is also a concern. The expanding world population and the on-going switch towards consumption of meat and dairy produce as incomes rise are already putting pressure on freshwater supplies, which increased growing of biofuel crops could exacerbate. In conclusion, UN Energy suggests policymakers should take a holistic look before embarking on drives to boost biofuel use. "Only through a convergence of biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions and water-use policies can bioenergy find its proper environmental context and agricultural scale," the report concludes. cars may not be healthier 18 Apr 07 | Health Denmark seeks biofuel solutions 11 Apr 07 | Europe Castro in new US biofuel attack 04 Apr 07 | Americas EU fuel push 'may damage forests' 02 Apr 07 | UK Biofuel demand makes food expensive 23 Mar 07 | Business 24 Jan Green energy or grim reaper? 22 Sep demand for non-food crops 18 Apr leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6645179.stm | Americas | Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 11 May 2007, 00:00 GMT 01:00 unveils Hubble's successor The model of the JWST is on display in Washington DC. The US space agency Nasa has unveiled a model of a space telescope that scientists say will be able to see to the farthest reaches of the Universe. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is intended to replace the ageing Hubble telescope. It will be larger than its predecessor, sit farther from Earth and have a giant mirror to enable it to see more. Officials said the JWST - named after a former Nasa administrator - was on course for launch in June 2013. The full-scale model is being displayed outside the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in the US capital, Washington DC. It was recently shown off in Seattle at the American Astronomical Society meeting. The $4.5bn (£2.3bn) telescope will take up a position some 1.5 million km (930,000 miles) from Earth. It will measure 24m (80ft) long by 12m (40ft) high and incorporate a hexagonal mirror 6.5m (21.3ft) in diameter, almost three times the size of Hubble's. Hubble, launched in 1990, has sent back pictures of our solar system, distant stars, and remote fledgling galaxies formed not long after the Big Bang. But scientists say the JWST will enable them to look deeper into space and even further back at the origins of the Universe. "Clearly we need a much bigger telescope to go back much further in time to see the very birth of the Universe," said Edward Weiler, director of Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre. Martin Mohan of Northrop Grumman, the contractor building the telescope, said that the team was making excellent progress. "There's engineering to do, but invention is done, more than six years ahead of launch," he said. When ready, the JWST will be launched by a European Ariane 5 rocket. It is expected to have a 10-year lifespan. Until then, the 17-year-old Hubble telescope will continue to do its work. Nasa plans to send astronauts on the space shuttle to service it in 2008. THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE JWST is named after James E Webb, Nasa Administrator during the Apollo lunar exploration era; he served from 1961 to 1968 It will be placed 1.5m km from Earth, at Lagrange Point 2, an area of gravitational balance that keeps it in a Sun-Earth line The telescope will be shaded from sunlight by a shield, enabling it to stay cold, increasing its sensitivity to infrared radiation Three principal instruments will gather images of the Universe in the infrared region of the spectrum These will yield new information about how stars and galaxies first formed a few hundred million years after the Big Bang mirror nears completion 08 Feb stars in telescope's sights 12 Jan camera delights astronomers 10 Nov 03 | Science/Nature names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/south_of_scotland/6647545.stm | South of Scotland | Red squirrel dies from deadly pox 11 May 2007, 16:58 GMT 17:58 squirrel dies from deadly pox The squirrel was found displaying symptoms of the virus The first case of a red squirrel dying in Scotland as a result of the squirrel pox virus has been confirmed. The animal, which was displaying classic symptoms of the virus, was found near Lockerbie, Dumfries and Galloway, on Tuesday. The squirrel was euthanised following an examination at the South of Scotland Wildlife Hospital, Dumfries. Edinburgh vets then confirmed squirrel pox. The virus is carried by non-native grey squirrels. Conservationists have been working hard to try and stop the virus coming over the border into Scotland, and until now had been successful. We are very concerned about the spread of the virus into red squirrels in Scotland Intensive control measures have been in place since its presence in Scotland was first detected in invasive populations of grey squirrels in May 2005. Although the virus is fatal to red squirrels, greys remain unaffected by the disease. Scottish Natural Heritage currently has two grey squirrel control officers working in the south of Scotland. Professor Colin Galbraith, director of policy and advice at Scottish Natural Heritage, said: "SNH has been working with the Southern Upland Partnership to monitor the squirrel pox situation in grey squirrels in the south of Scotland for the past six months. "We were aware that the virus been found in a red squirrel less than a mile south of the border and had feared that, at some point, the disease would transfer to the red squirrels in Scotland. The red squirrels contract the virus from non-native grey squirrels "Targeted grey squirrel control in the area has undoubtedly delayed the progression of the disease to Scottish red squirrels and we will continue our intensive grey squirrel control in the affected areas to allow further time to investigate the development of a vaccine." He said the squirrel control officers would continue to monitor and test squirrels to minimise the spread of the disease. Local red squirrel conservation officer Ann-Marie MacMaster urged the public to report red or grey squirrels which appeared to be ill. "Once red squirrels develop lesions, they are extremely infectious," she said. "We would also ask people in the Lockerbie area especially not to encourage the two species of squirrel together through the use of feeders as this may facilitate the spread of the disease." Gordon Patterson, biodiversity policy adviser for the Forestry Commission Scotland, said: "We are very concerned about the spread of the virus into red squirrels in Scotland. "Our staff are already involved in the monitoring work and we will now look out with extra vigilance for any signs of diseased red squirrels in the area and report them to the project team." Tests on the squirrel's body were carried out at the Moredun Research Institute, Edinburgh. The red squirrel is one of the most threatened species of mammal in the UK with 75% (121,000 animals) of the population estimated to be found in Scotland. In February 2007, the Scottish Executive awarded a two-year contract to investigate the development of a vaccine against squirrel pox virus. 'setback' for red squirrels 15 Feb 07 | North West Wales 'Wall' to protect red squirrels 20 Sep 06 | South of Scotland Red squirrel dies of deadly virus 17 Jul 06 | Merseyside Red squirrel forest 'stronghold' 15 Jun 06 | South of Scotland Grey squirrel cull bounties urged 11 Jun 06 | Scotland Red squirrel extinction warning 27 Feb 06 | Scotland SNH - Red Squirrels Red Squirrels in the South of Scotland South of Scotland Wildlife Hospital SOUTH OF SCOTLAND STORIES Council leader set to retain role Tory stands for presiding officer Red squirrel dies from deadly pox
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6632179.stm | Portrait of a perfect murder 7 May 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 of a perfect murder Most murderers are unaware of even the simplest clues that might give them away. But by thinking like a forensic scientist, is the "perfect" murder possible? The so-called perfect murder - an undetectable crime where the killer gets away scot free - has long been the stuff of mystery fiction. From the icicle to the leg of lamb, authors have strived to come up with more imaginative weapons and crimes than their predecessors. But would any of these ingenious methods work? Staging a death to look like an accident is one of the first things an aspiring murderer might try. But when a pathologist examines the body of the victim they're not just looking for the cause of death. Other minor injuries - like bruising from a struggle, or scratch marks where a body has been dragged - can reveal a murder. If you're dumping a body, of course you don't think where's the hypostasis, you just dump the body and run Another important clue is hypostasis. When someone dies their blood pressure falls, and gravity makes the blood pool in those regions of the body closest to the ground. This red staining is clearly visible, and can reveal the position of the body at death. If a body is found lying on its right-hand side, but the red staining due to hypostasis is down the left-hand side, then the body has clearly been moved. "It gives us a very important clue," says pathologist Dr Richard Shepherd. "If you're dumping a body, of course you don't think where's the hypostasis, you just dump the body and run." The body can reveal a lot of secrets, so a number of killers have tried to get rid of their victim's body altogether. In the 1940s the "acid bath murderer" John Haigh attempted to dissolve the bodies of six victims in sulphuric acid. This destroys bones and tissue but it can't digest fats - or plastic. This is how John Haigh was caught. A pair of dentures, a red plastic handbag, and three human gallstones - covered in a layer of fat - were retrieved from the acid sludge found at his workshop. One mistake and a killer is caught Another method of body disposal comes from forensic scientists themselves. DNA expert Eleanor Graham at the University of Leicester says: "It was developed for situations like the mass graves in Bosnia Herzegovina, where you find mostly skeletonised remains, but a bit of soft tissue adhering. "You need to clean these bones up and to preserve the DNA for identification purposes. The old systems included boiling at high temperatures which was extremely destructive to the DNA." What these scientists now do is simply heat the remains gently with biological washing powder. The biological enzymes eat away at the flesh, leaving just the bones behind. This would certainly make a murder more difficult to investigate but not impossible. Some people are more likely to deposit their DNA than other people Gunshot and knife wounds may still be visible on the bones, and any blow with a blunt instrument is likely to have shattered or cracked them. But there is a weapon that wouldn't leave visible evidence behind. It's the one professional assassins favour - poison. The victim may not even realise what's happened until the murderer is many miles away. The most recent example is Alexander Litvinenko's poisoning with polonium late last year. It took the investigators weeks to identify the poison, because polonium-210 had never been used in this way before. But what Litvinenko's poisoner may not have realised is that this ingenious poison might also give them away. The alpha radiation given out by polonium-210 can be detected in incredibly small quantities. As the poisoner escaped they were leaving behind a radioactive trail that may yet lead to their capture. This type of trace evidence is the final piece of the perfect murder puzzle. Modern crime scene investigators can spot much more than just fingerprints. The CSI team can pick up tiny fibres of clothing, shoeprints from a carpet, and of course DNA. The world's best detectives are one step ahead And Ms Graham says our DNA may actually make some of us better criminals than others. "Some people are more likely to deposit their DNA than other people. One person could pick up a bottle of water, put it down, you get a full profile. "Another one could drink from it and you wouldn't pick up very much. No one knows exactly why this is but there does seem to be a very big difference." So if someone sheds less DNA, that would reduce the risk of leaving tell-tale evidence. But that's also why the real-life "perfect" murder is likely to fail. It relies too heavily on chance. Every single element must come together perfectly. The forensic scientists need just one mistake and the criminal could be caught. If someone wants to get away with murder their best hope is to be very, very lucky. Horizon: How to commit the perfect murder is on BBC Two at 2100 BST on Tuesday 8 May A selection of your comments appears below. One of the American Mafia bosses had sign above his desk saying something like "the best secret is known by three men, and two of them are dead". The only way to commit a "perfect" murder is by conspiracy and to have bent cops on your side....there is always a mistake, or a link to the killer otherwise. The other way to do a perfect murder would be in a totally random way-like some kind of psycho, killing a stranger then leaving the country. Phil Harrington, Newport S Wales If you want to kill someone and get away with it; run them over. Many car-related crimes are unsolved and killing someone with a car is seen, in our society, as far less serious than doing so with a gun. Has anyone found the white Fiat that was in the underpass with Diana's Merc? The perfect murder was the execution of Charles I. The man had a mask on, there were no forensics then, and despite scores of witnesses, the killer was never even questioned. Nigel Macarthur, London, England Of course there may be thousands of perfect murders a year - the point being that if they are perfect murders then no-one will recognise them as such, they will be suicides, accidents or natural deaths. We therefore have no way of knowing quite how good current forensics are. Perfect Murder? Elvis Presley. Perfect murders happen all the time. Every unsolved murder, every missing person, perhaps. The greatest perfect murders have probably already happened because the police defined them suicides or accidents. So the perfect murder is one that one even thinks is a murder. If people think that shows like Quincy or CSI show how to commit a perfect murder then they are very much mistaken. Both shows are riddled with scientific errors even an A level student would see through. Regardless of forensic evidence, it's still possible to be convicted of murder even without a body being found. John Airey, Peterborough, UK I think that there is the "perfect" murder, but probably just by accident. JonBenet Ramsey is one example. Kara Tyson, Mobile, AL USA This is all very interesting, but is it really responsible journalism? Programs like CSI have already been accused of the "CSI effect" - and they're really just entertainment programs, so the details aren't always realistic or accurate. Even if people don't use your information to get away with crimes, they may think they'll be able to get away with crimes. Therefore, people might commit crimes they'd otherwise have not committed, because of fear of getting caught. There is some information that should be closely guarded - here, the benefit of the information is limited, whilst the potential cost is high. Ankush, get a grip. This article reveals very little, and probably nothing that couldn't be found in an introductory pathology text book. I think that this article is irresponsible. Isn't there enough crime and murders in the world without giving hints on how to create the perfect crime and avoid being caught?! Some people may read this article and find it interesting. However, what about the people who aren't of sound mind? Surely this puts ideas into their head. While I see merit in comments relating to copy-cat style happenings, if someone is willing to commit a murder, they will do it regardless of whether they read/saw something that would 'help' them. There is way too much finger-pointing going on in today's society, what is wrong with portraying an informative subject on a darker matter? It's much better than another show about driving decorated cars too fast or making way for another fickle reality show. Simon Clements-Hawes, Truro, Cornwall Sounds like an interesting programme - pity it clashes with CSI. the legend of Bobby Moore keeps growing, fed by nostalgia and guilt 7 days 7 questions Are you a Smartie? Test yourself Profile of 'everyman' Bertie Ahern How do astronauts 'go' in space? Tony Blair's dramatic quit smoking deadline 9 other newsy facts from the week VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6634221.stm | Asia-Pacific | Coconut oil powers island's cars 8 May 2007, 09:43 GMT 10:43 oil powers island's cars People on the island of Bougainville in Papua New Guinea have found their own solution to high energy prices - the humble coconut. They are developing mini-refineries that produce a coconut oil that can replace diesel. From police officers to priests, the locals are powering up their vehicles and generators with coco-fuel. Inquiries for the coconut power have come in from overseas, including Iran and Europe. For years, the people of Bougainville have been dependent on expensive fuel imported onto the island. Shortages have often caused many businesses in this part of Papua New Guinea to grind to a halt. High energy costs have not helped either. Doesn't it sound good if you really run your car on something which falls off a tree and that's the good thing about it Increasingly, locals are turning to a cheaper and far more sustainable alternative to diesel. Coconut oil is being produced at a growing number of backyard refineries. Matthias Horn, a German migrant and an engineer, operates one such refinery. "They sometimes refer to me as the Mad German because how can you do that to your car... filling it with some coconut juice that you normally fry your fish in," he said. "The coconut tree is a beautiful tree. Doesn't it sound good if you really run your car on something which falls off a tree and that's the good thing about it. You run your car and it smells nice and it's environmentally friendly and that's the main thing." Mr Horn said his work had attracted interest from Iran. Refineries like his also produce oils for cooking and cosmetics as well as soap. Coconut power is not new in Bougainville. The island endured years of civil unrest in which thousands of people were killed in a fight for independence in the 1990s. Dwindling supplies of diesel forced islanders to look for alternatives and the coconut was chosen. In peacetime, new technology is propelling this sweet-smelling industry to greater heights. Profile: Papua New Guinea 09 Jul 03 | Country profiles Timeline: Papua New Guinea 19 May 03 | Country profiles agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6596427.stm Science holds key to greener future 26 April 2007, 21:19 GMT 22:19 holds key to greener future The environmental problems facing the world in the 21st Century are the legacy of human activities, argues Sir David King. But he says, in this week's Green Room, we also hold the key to solving these problems by attracting the brightest young minds into the world of science. It is easy in our day-to-day lives to believe we are detached from the wider environment, but that is an illusion Send us your comments Mankind has never had a greater need for science, and for the spark of human ingenuity to apply this to tackling today's great global challenges. Built on centuries of tradition and endeavour, the UK is second to none in the diversity and excellence of its scientific heritage. Our nation punches well above its weight in the quality and number of academic papers and citations, above Germany, France and Japan, and trailing only the far bigger economy of the US. It is vital therefore that we pay equal regard to ensuring that the UK's outstanding scientific outputs flow through to enhance the quality of life and prosperity for people in the UK, and beyond. The challenges facing science, and humanity, as we move through the 21st Century are manifold. I would place none higher than the test we face in our stewardship of planet Earth. Even with our best efforts, we must be prepared for further global temperature rise as a result of past emissions It is a stern test, as demonstrated by a few stark facts. From around three billion people on the planet in 1950, global population has risen to over six billion today. By the middle of this century, it will exceed nine billion. Most future population growth will be in the developing world, where people quite reasonably aspire to the living standards enjoyed today by "western societies", such as our own. Yet it is estimated that, even with today's population, we would need the resources of three planets for people across the world to imitate western lifestyles. I do not advocate a hairshirt future, but clearly we need to find new ways to develop both our lifestyles and the planet we share. Negative impacts will dominate in all regions, says Sir David It is easy in our day-to-day lives to believe we are detached from the wider environment, but that is an illusion. Climate change presents us with a particular stringent test, which unmitigated will magnify many of the existing scourges of mankind: famine, drought, flood, disease and conflict. The scientific evidence is compelling beyond any reasonable doubt that unless we very radically transform our economies to reduce greenhouse emissions to a fraction of current levels then future generations will reap a heavy price. Indeed, the signals are already with us of the sort of changes that we can expect to continue and accelerate, as land ice melts, sea levels rise and extreme weather events become more severe. Even with our best efforts, we must be prepared for further global temperature rise as a result of past emissions, and the climate impacts associated with this. The outcome will initially be mixed, with positive and negative effects depending where in the world you live and on other factors. But in time the negative impacts will dominate in all regions, and will fall earliest and heaviest on the poorest countries, which are least able to adapt and which have contributed least to the problem. Carbon levels in the atmosphere continue to rise It will take an unprecedented international effort if we are to avoid the most dangerous climate changes that are predicted, and for individual countries to adapt to those impacts it is already too late for us to avoid. From climate change I move to another linked challenge - energy. Since the industrial revolution, fossil fuels have powered our economies and brought new levels of prosperity. But by releasing into the atmosphere carbon, as carbon dioxide, that has been naturally sequestered underground over tens to hundreds of millions of years, we have raised concentration levels in the atmosphere in just 150 years beyond anything seen for at least one million years, and probably far longer. At the same time, world energy demand is expected to rise by half as much again by 2030. Even with a major push on energy efficiency, there is a critical need for step changes in the pace at which we deploy current low-carbon technologies in developed and developing countries alike; and we must quickly advance the more innovative technologies such as carbon capture and storage, wave and tidal power, and solar photovoltaics. There are no simple solutions and there is certainly no single "silver bullet" technological fix. The pathway for advancing new energy technologies to technical and economic viability at scale is complex, difficult and inevitably takes time, even with major efforts to accelerate progress. The £1bn public/private Energy Technology Institute, launched by the UK Government, is an important new initiative in this area, providing good starting levels of investment, focus and ambition, and I hope in time will develop as part of a global network of similar centres of excellence. There has never been a greater need for inquisitive and determined young minds to develop the solutions needed for the 21st Century Nor can we tackle the problem by focusing on one sector alone. It is not a question of whether we should reduce emissions from our vehicles, or our houses, or industry, or in aviation or shipping, or through curbing deforestation. The scale of the challenge is such that we must do all of these things, whilst using our actions as a stimulus to galvanise the wider international response. And we must continue to prosper, not just for our own sakes but because those we seek to influence will not follow our lead if they perceive that environmental sustainability means economic decline. It is a powerful demonstration that in the UK we have been able to grow our economy in real terms by around half since 1990, whilst greenhouse gas emissions have fallen by 15%. Action is affordable and is the pro-growth strategy. It is inaction that we cannot afford. Returning to where I began, science and technological innovation must be at the heart of the UK's approach as we tackle these and other of the great national and global challenges we face in the century ahead. But science does need to be redirected to meet these challenges. My message to any young person today mulling over their future career path is this: there has never been a better time to consider a future in scientific discovery; or in engineering to bring innovative technologies to real world application. And there has never been a greater need for inquisitive and determined young minds to develop the solutions needed for the 21st Century. Sir David King is the UK Government's chief scientific adviser The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Tackling climate change effectively means giving power to local communities. Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans Time to tax the carbon dodgers End of oil heralds climate pain Department for Trade and Industry leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/ Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. the standard MIME type of the object. the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. the kilobits per second rate of media. the number of frames per second for the media object. the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). number of audio channels in the media object. the number of seconds the media object plays. the height of the media object. the width of the media object. the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. the width of the thumbnail. the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. the URI that identifies the role scheme. this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6634221.stm | Asia-Pacific | Coconut oil powers island's cars 8 May 2007, 09:43 GMT 10:43 oil powers island's cars People on the island of Bougainville in Papua New Guinea have found their own solution to high energy prices - the humble coconut. They are developing mini-refineries that produce a coconut oil that can replace diesel. From police officers to priests, the locals are powering up their vehicles and generators with coco-fuel. Inquiries for the coconut power have come in from overseas, including Iran and Europe. For years, the people of Bougainville have been dependent on expensive fuel imported onto the island. Shortages have often caused many businesses in this part of Papua New Guinea to grind to a halt. High energy costs have not helped either. Doesn't it sound good if you really run your car on something which falls off a tree and that's the good thing about it Increasingly, locals are turning to a cheaper and far more sustainable alternative to diesel. Coconut oil is being produced at a growing number of backyard refineries. Matthias Horn, a German migrant and an engineer, operates one such refinery. "They sometimes refer to me as the Mad German because how can you do that to your car... filling it with some coconut juice that you normally fry your fish in," he said. "The coconut tree is a beautiful tree. Doesn't it sound good if you really run your car on something which falls off a tree and that's the good thing about it. You run your car and it smells nice and it's environmentally friendly and that's the main thing." Mr Horn said his work had attracted interest from Iran. Refineries like his also produce oils for cooking and cosmetics as well as soap. Coconut power is not new in Bougainville. The island endured years of civil unrest in which thousands of people were killed in a fight for independence in the 1990s. Dwindling supplies of diesel forced islanders to look for alternatives and the coconut was chosen. In peacetime, new technology is propelling this sweet-smelling industry to greater heights. Profile: Papua New Guinea 09 Jul 03 | Country profiles Timeline: Papua New Guinea 19 May 03 | Country profiles agree cross-border train 'New proof' of Japan sex slaves Ramos-Horta 'wins E Timor poll'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/wiltshire/6645367.stm | Wiltshire | Tunnel open again at Silbury hill 11 May 2007, 02:11 GMT 03:11 open again at Silbury hill English Heritage is conducting stabilisation work at the site Engineers have reopened a tunnel that goes deep inside the ancient monument of Silbury Hill in Wiltshire. The tunnel, dug in 1968, was the last of many made over the centuries by archaeologists exploring the site. Engineers are planning to stabilise the 5,000-year-old structure, which is believed to be the world's largest man-made prehistoric mound. Archaeologists will also try to unlock the site's ancient secrets and find out how, why and when it was built. Earlier this year, archaeologists found traces of a Roman settlement at the landmark. English Heritage, which is conducting the stabilising work, believes there was a Roman community at Silbury Hill about 2,000 years ago. It says the site may have been a sacred place of pilgrimage. "We don't know exactly what it was for but it was probably part of a ceremonial and sacred landscape which centered on the Avebury henge," said an English Heritage spokeswoman. English Heritage is conducting stabilisation work at the site The 130ft Neolithic mound near Avebury - one of Europe's largest prehistoric monuments - is thought to have been created some 3,000 years earlier. Heavy rains in May 2000 caused substantial damage to the hill, with the collapse of an 18th century shaft. Parts of the ancient site are thought to be collapsing because of the tunnels dug by archaeologists over many centuries. After prising open the tunnel's sealed door on Friday, engineers are expected to spend four months, filling the tunnels with hundreds of tonnes of chalk to stabilise the structure. Archaeologists will also be going into the hill, hoping that modern science can solve the mystery of why the hill was built in the first place. AND AUDIO NEWS A pagan ritual starts the reopening John Kay visits the Hill Leisure, sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Wiltshire Roman clues found at ancient hill 10 Mar 07 | Wiltshire Ancient hill's holes to be filled 28 Nov 05 | Wiltshire Lord pleased over hill walker ban 30 Jun 04 | Wiltshire Stone circle's future mapped out 09 Sep 05 | Somerset BBC History: Roman Britain Silbury Hill - English Heritage open again at Silbury hill MP wants railway operator sacked Bid to create more women bosses
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm Galileo firms miss key deadline 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May companies given deadline 22 Mar sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6645161.stm Aboriginal remains fight resolved 10 May 2007, 23:29 GMT 00:29 remains fight resolved The museum has many thousands on human items in its collection London's Natural History Museum has struck a deal with Australian aboriginal leaders over the remains of 17 indigenous Tasmanians it holds. The museum had agreed to return the remains to Tasmania, but not until tests were carried out on the bones. But Tasmanian aborigines viewed the tests as a desecration of their beliefs and took their case to the High Court. Under the settlement, four DNA samples from the 19th Century specimens will be preserved in Tasmania. The remains - including teeth, skulls and other bones removed from the island - will be turned over to a delegation from the Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre (TAC) in a private ceremony at the museum on Friday. The agreement means that scientists are not able to complete all the tests they had originally planned. But a Natural History Museum (NHM) spokesperson said the investigations were "conducted to a high level". She said museum researchers had extracted as much information as they could under limits on testing imposed in the High Court. "The decision by the museum's trustees in November last year represented a willingness to move on from past practices," said Richard Lane, the NHM director of science. "We're very pleased that we've been able to persuade them to preserve the DNA. We're actually quite enthusiastic that we've come to a constructive agreement. Both parties have travelled a long way," he told BBC news. Although the museum agreed to return the remains last year, it had maintained the right to continue testing them - taking casts and photographs and subjecting the specimens to CT scans and measurements. But TAC contested this part of the decision and initiated legal proceedings. In February 2007, an injunction was issued preventing the museum from studying the remains any further. This was subsequently lifted after the museum said it would limit its tests. Researchers would no longer use "invasive" techniques such as DNA extraction or isotope analysis, the museum agreed. These procedures might have yielded insight into the Aborigines' genetic make-up, their diet and aspects of their culture. Under the agreement now reached, DNA samples from four of the remains will be preserved in Tasmania under the joint control of the NHM and the TAC. These samples were extracted from the remains before the decision was taken to return them. "We have to work with the TAC for a framework that allows scientists to have access [to the DNA samples]. We have no preconceptions about how that is going to work," Professor Lane said. TAC representative Greg Brown told BBC News: "Now we have some power and say over what happens. Nothing can happen to the DNA samples unless it has the joint approval of the parties. "There are a lot of sensitivities over the use of DNA by our people and we want to have control over what happens with that." He could not comment on what types of research the TAC might find offensive, but said decisions would be made in consultation with the whole community. Mr Brown added that aboriginal leaders believed the samples should eventually be buried. The TAC objects to testing because it desecrates the beliefs of its community. The dead are said to be "souls in torment" until properly buried, according to aboriginal custom. The Tasmanian materials were largely collected in the 19th Century by George Augustus Robinson, who had been contracted by the colonial government of the day to clear lands by force for European settlers. On his death, the remains were passed into the possession of other individuals and eventually deposited in UK institutions, and then gradually brought under the keeping of the Natural History Museum. Scientists in the UK say the Tasmanian remains could shed light on human evolution, and particularly on the colonisation of Australia. Tasmanian populations appear to have been isolated from mainland aboriginal Australians for 10,000 years until the arrival of Europeans in the 19th Century. According to the TAC, there were around 8,000 Aboriginals in Tasmania when the British settled the island in 1802, but by 1850 there were just 47 left, after thousands were killed in massacres and or by disease brought in by the colonists. court fight delayed 22 Feb remains tests halted 12 Feb 07 | London Museum returns aboriginal remains 17 Nov 06 | London Museums free to move human parts 05 Oct 05 | UK Bone return consultation launched 28 Jul 04 | Science/Nature leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6638017.stm Scientists compile 'book of life' 9 May 2007, 18:20 GMT 19:20 compile 'book of life' All known species including the zorilla will be included Long-snouted aardvarks will rub shoulders with skunk-like zorillas in an ambitious plan to provide a virtual snapshot of life on Earth. The Encyclopedia of Life project aims to detail all 1.8 million known plant and animal species in a net archive. Individual species pages will include photographs, video, sound and maps, collected and written by experts. The archive, to be built over 10 years, could help conservation efforts as well as being a useful tool for education. "The Encyclopedia of Life will provide valuable biodiversity and conservation information to anyone, anywhere, at any time," said Dr James Edwards, executive director of the $100m (£50m) project. "[It] will ultimately make high-quality, well-organized information available on an unprecedented level." The vast database will initially concentrate on animals, plants and fungi with microbes to follow. Fossil species may eventually be added. There could be up to 100 million species in the world To begin with, information will be harvested from existing databases, such as FishBase which already contains details of 29,900 species. "One of the big tasks in the first six months will be to identify which groups we will focus on after that," Graham Higley of London's Natural History Museum, one of the partners in the project, told the BBC News website. As the archive grows, it will become a "web of life" that will represent the relationships between different species on Earth. During this gestation, teams of scientists will pore over it. "They will be looking to identify species where the information is thin - and it is on an awful lot of species - to make it more comprehensive and usable," said Mr Higley. The database has been in development since January 2006, although web pages dedicated to individual species have been produced ad hoc since the mid 1990s. The scientists involved in the project said that the ability to catalogue millions of entries on the web had only just become possible. "Advances in technology for searching, annotating, and visualising information now permit us - indeed mandate us - to build the Encyclopedia of Life," said Dr Edwards. It could eventually fill with many more species than the original 1.8 million known today. Biologists estimate that there could be anywhere between five and 100 million species on the planet. Other projects have previously attempted to index life on Earth. For example, the Catalogue of Life keeps a database of more than one million species. However, according to Mr Higley, it does not have the level of detail that the proposed Encyclopedia of Life will eventually contain. "It's a list of names," he said. "What it is not is a description of those species." Other databases have taken the identification process one step further. In 2005, scientists launched the Consortium for the Barcode of Life, an ongoing attempt to identify all species through a unique genetic marker system. These "tags" are composed of the order of DNA letters in a particular gene found in mitochondria, the "power units" in cells. The project has so far collected more than 250,000 barcodes and has described more than 27,000 species. intends to tag all life 10 Feb 05 | Science/Nature Science counts species on brink 17 Nov 04 | Science/Nature Mammal rise 'not linked' to dinos 28 Mar 'see new species born' 09 Jun 04 | Science/Nature Scientists hail new 'map of life' 20 Nov 03 | Science/Nature leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6640271.stm Tiny marsupial records DNA first 9 May 2007, 18:00 GMT 19:00 marsupial records DNA first The small creature is normally found in the trees of South America The grey, short-tailed opossum has become the first marsupial to have its DNA read through by scientists. The creature is commonly used in labs as an experimental "model" in which to study the causes of human disease, such as cancer and neurological problems. Knowing its genome will boost those efforts, and give new insight into the different evolutionary paths taken by marsupial and placental mammals. Details of the work appear in the journals Nature and Genome Research. The study is part of a grand scheme to compare the biochemistry of a range of animals with that of , to understand better how the human body is built and maintained, and how all species differ from one another. "The idea is to obtain genome sequence information from organisms that are appropriately spaced relative to us on the tree of life," explained Adam Felsenfeld, from the US National Human Genome Research Institute. "For example, by lining up the sequences it is possible to detect regions of the genome that have not changed, so are conserved and perhaps important; or, alternatively, regions that are changing very rapidly." In the wild, the opossum is found in the trees of South America. It was chosen as a subject to have its full complement of DNA (its genome) decoded because of its current importance to science. Its small size, ease of breeding and large litters have made the creature the predominant marsupial for laboratory study worldwide. The double-stranded DNA molecule is held together by four chemical components scientists refer to as bases Adenine (A) bonds with thymine (T); cytosine(C) bonds with guanine (G) Groupings of these "letters" form the "code of life"; there are about 3.4 billion base-pairs in the opossum genome Written in this DNA sequence are about 18-20,000 genes Genes are starting templates used by cells to make proteins; the sophisticated molecules that build and maintain the body Marsupial mammals (kangaroos, wallabies, etc) are closely related to the placental mammals (humans, mice, etc) - but not that close. They last shared a common ancestor about 180 million years ago and have arrived at very different reproductive solutions - with marsupials rearing their young externally, sometimes in a pouch. "This marsupial is a bit different in that the young are not kept in a pouch; they just dangle off the teats," observed Jenny Graves from the Australian National University. This open arrangement makes the study of early developmental processes much simpler, and should give scientists clues as to how they perform a number of very clever biological tricks. For example, when newborns crawl to their mother's teats, they are little more than a mouth and gut. They have no functioning immune system but are still able to survive in an open, "dirty" environment. Looking at the genes should help scientists work out how this is possible. Research has also shown that newborns can regrow their spinal cords, even if they are completely severed. "The genome hasn't told us exactly how they do that but the genome provides us with a blueprint for further study and for being able to apply some of that knowledge to humans," commented Chris Gunter, a senior biology editor at Nature. The decoding work, led by the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts, reveals the opossum to have between 18,000 and 20,000 protein-coding genes. The number is a little short of what is seen in a placental mammal like a human - but broadly similar. The big difference, scientists say, is in the DNA sequences that are responsible for regulation of the genes - controlling when and where in cell processes they become active. "Twenty percent of all the regulatory instructions in the human genome were invented after we parted ways with the marsupial," explained Eric Lander, the director of the Broad Institute. "Evolution is tinkering much more with the controls than with the genes themselves." Many of these innovative DNA instructions were derived from so-called "jumping genes", or transposons - small pieces of genetic code that hop around the genome and were previously thought to have no function. "Transposons have a restless lifestyle, often shuttling themselves from one chromosome to another," said Broad researcher Tarjei Mikkelsen. "It is now clear that in their travels, they are disseminating crucial genetic innovations around the genome." decode macaque genome 13 Apr study sheds light on dog size 05 Apr show big DNA differences 23 Nov creature's genome insight 10 Nov genome 'chapter' published 18 May code' of chimps laid bare 31 Aug 05 | Science/Nature leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6639977.stm | Sounds bring Google Earth to life 10 May 2007, 07:37 GMT 08:37 bring Google Earth to life Google Earth offers satellite images of many parts of the world As well as homing in on visual feasts around the globe, users of Google Earth may soon be able to listen to the sounds that accompany them. A Californian company has created software that can layer relevant recorded sounds over locations in Google Earth, New Scientist reports. Wild Sanctuary has over 3,500 hours of soundscapes from all over the world. The firm is in talks with Google, although no official agreement has yet been made. Its director, Bernie Krause said: "A picture tells a thousand words, but a sound tells a thousand pictures." Dr Krause has spent the last 40 years collecting sounds, and his recordings include more than 15,000 animal noises, and sounds from a huge array of habitats, including cities, deserts, mountains and the marine environment. It is the largest library in existence of natural sound, he said. He said the idea would be to zoom-in on a particular area and then have the option to listen to the accompanying sound. "It could be a real beneficial add-on," he said. The software is to be presented at the Where 2.0 conference in San Jose, California on 29 May. Mr Krause said up to two dozen sounds would be show-cased at first, but many more would be added later. If the project is successful, he would also like to use Google Earth show how sounds change with time. He said: "People will be able to get a sense of before and after. "For example, people are talking about how selective logging is an appropriate way of not harming the environment. "But we have evidence that from the sound perspective, selective logging has a profound effect on the natural world. The pictures of before and after look exactly the same, but the sound is completely different." Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa Nasa and Google form cosmic union 19 Dec 06 | Technology Google Earth prompts Indian fears 05 Feb 07 | Technology Mobiles ring with sounds of the wild 07 Jul 03 | Technology leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6640233.stm | Grants cut for home energy scheme 9 May 2007, 17:10 GMT 18:10 cut for home energy scheme About 240 micro-turbines have been installed under the scheme The government's decision to reduce individual grants for homeowners wanting to produce their own renewable energy has been criticised. Changes to the Low Carbon Buildings Programme mean that future applicants will be limited to £2,500 for domestic micro-generation projects. Previously, grants of up to £15,000 and £5,000 were available for solar energy and micro-turbine schemes respectively. Ministers said the changes would enable more people to participate. Demand for the scheme, introduced last year, has been intense with monthly allocations of money being fully subscribed within minutes. Grants worth £6.8m have been awarded so far and a further £11.9m in funding is available. There is no justification for the decision in terms of strategy or support for domestic renewable electricity market Seb Berry, Solar Century However, less than £3.5m of the money has been spent, following planning hold-ups, delays to building schedules and flawed applications. This has led some people to claim that the scheme - a key plank in the government's efforts to promote energy efficiency - is in crisis. The application process was suspended in March pending a review, which has resulted in a cut in individual grants, a reduction in the time people have to finish projects and a revamp of the application process. Companies involved in micro-generation criticised the decision to reduce individual grant levels, one describing it as "unnecessary and baffling". "There is no justification for the decision in terms of strategy or support for domestic renewable electricity market," said Seb Berry, external affairs director of Solar Century, which designs and installs solar panels. With the typical cost of buying and installing a solar panel system about £7,000, Mr Berry said the changes would make the project unviable for many people. "You are asking individual homeowners to find £4,000 to £5,000 of their own money." Bu the government defended alterations to the scheme, saying it would ensure more projects were completed and help domestic renewables become more self-sustaining. "We can't fund everybody in the country who wants to do it," said a DTI spokesman. "We have a limited amount of money and we want to spread that as far as we can." law eased for turbines 04 Apr 07 | Politics DTI rethinks green home subsidies 22 Mar 07 | Business High street solar panels on sale 01 Aug 06 | Technology Department of Trade and Industry 'pushing up pay deals' People 'pay less into pensions' Postal workers to vote on strikes
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644365.stm Asian markets push illegal ivory 11 May 2007, 03:00 GMT 04:00 markets push illegal ivory The illegal ivory trade is expanding, driven by East Asian crime syndicates, according to the wildlife trade monitoring network Traffic. The syndicates gather ivory in Africa for export to East Asian countries. The biggest market is mainland China, though there is also significant trade to other countries such as Thailand and the Philippines. Traffic says there are 92 illegal ivory seizures per month, and the number of large hauls has doubled in a decade. Its report will be presented to next month's meeting of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), where wildlife campaigners hope it will put pressure on governments whose countries are used by the traffickers. With myriad conflicts, central Africa is currently haemorrhaging ivory "The relevant question is whether CITES is going to crack down or not, whether governments are going to show some political will," said Sue Lieberman, director of the global species programme at WWF which runs Traffic together with the World Conservation Union (IUCN). "The Asian market is the key. It is thriving again in Thailand, and a lot of Chinese businesses have moved into Africa, for example timber companies, which means more ivory is coming out," she told the BBC News website. Traffic bases its report on an analysis of nearly 12,400 records of ivory seizures in 82 countries dating back to 1989 as part of the Elephant Trade Information System (Etis). Raw ivory and trinkets made from it on sale in an Angolan market It clearly identifies the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cameroon and Nigeria as the main sources of illegal ivory. "With myriad conflicts, central Africa is currently haemorrhaging ivory," observed Tom Milliken, director of Traffic's Africa programme. "These three countries are major conduits for trafficking illegal ivory from the region to international markets, particularly in Asia." The number of seizures fell between 1990 and 1995, but there has been a rising trend since then. The number of large hauls - above one tonne - has also risen, which Dr Lieberman believes "demonstrates greater sophistication, organisation and finance". China is identified as the single biggest market, though Traffic says enforcement has improved markedly in the last five years. On the African side, the conservation group singles out Ethiopia for praise as a country which has effectively implemented an action plan drawn up by CITES four years ago, clamping down on its domestic ivory market. tracks origin of seized ivory 26 Feb held in Japan over ivory haul 07 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific Hunting for conservation solutions 27 Oct swoops on 'ivory syndicate' 07 Apr 06 | Africa leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6645923.stm | North Yorkshire | Scientists create 'plastic' blood 11 May 2007, 09:08 GMT 10:08 create 'plastic' blood The researchers said the artificial blood was easier to store Scientists have developed an artificial plastic blood which could act as a substitute in emergencies. Researchers at Sheffield University said their creation could be a huge advantage in war zones. They say that the artificial blood is light to carry, does not need to be kept cool and can be kept for longer. The new blood is made up of plastic molecules that have an iron atom at their core, like haemoglobin, that can carry oxygen through the body. The scientists said the artificial blood could be cheap to produce and they were looking for extra funding to develop a final prototype that would be suitable for biological testing. Dr Lance Twyman, of the university's Department of Chemistry, said: "We are very excited about the potential for this product and about the fact that this could save lives. "Many people die from superficial wounds when they are trapped in an accident or are injured on the battlefield and can't get blood before they get to hospital. "This product can be stored a lot more easily than blood, meaning large quantities could be carried easily by ambulances and the armed forces." A sample of the artificial blood prototype will be on display at the Science Museum in London from 22 May as part of an exhibition about the history of plastics. travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Policeman jailed over child sex Battlefield homes get green light Allotment produce declared safe
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6644365.stm Asian markets push illegal ivory 11 May 2007, 03:00 GMT 04:00 markets push illegal ivory The illegal ivory trade is expanding, driven by East Asian crime syndicates, according to the wildlife trade monitoring network Traffic. The syndicates gather ivory in Africa for export to East Asian countries. The biggest market is mainland China, though there is also significant trade to other countries such as Thailand and the Philippines. Traffic says there are 92 illegal ivory seizures per month, and the number of large hauls has doubled in a decade. Its report will be presented to next month's meeting of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), where wildlife campaigners hope it will put pressure on governments whose countries are used by the traffickers. With myriad conflicts, central Africa is currently haemorrhaging ivory "The relevant question is whether CITES is going to crack down or not, whether governments are going to show some political will," said Sue Lieberman, director of the global species programme at WWF which runs Traffic together with the World Conservation Union (IUCN). "The Asian market is the key. It is thriving again in Thailand, and a lot of Chinese businesses have moved into Africa, for example timber companies, which means more ivory is coming out," she told the BBC News website. Traffic bases its report on an analysis of nearly 12,400 records of ivory seizures in 82 countries dating back to 1989 as part of the Elephant Trade Information System (Etis). Raw ivory and trinkets made from it on sale in an Angolan market It clearly identifies the Democratic Republic of Congo, Cameroon and Nigeria as the main sources of illegal ivory. "With myriad conflicts, central Africa is currently haemorrhaging ivory," observed Tom Milliken, director of Traffic's Africa programme. "These three countries are major conduits for trafficking illegal ivory from the region to international markets, particularly in Asia." The number of seizures fell between 1990 and 1995, but there has been a rising trend since then. The number of large hauls - above one tonne - has also risen, which Dr Lieberman believes "demonstrates greater sophistication, organisation and finance". China is identified as the single biggest market, though Traffic says enforcement has improved markedly in the last five years. On the African side, the conservation group singles out Ethiopia for praise as a country which has effectively implemented an action plan drawn up by CITES four years ago, clamping down on its domestic ivory market. tracks origin of seized ivory 26 Feb held in Japan over ivory haul 07 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific Hunting for conservation solutions 27 Oct swoops on 'ivory syndicate' 07 Apr 06 | Africa leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6633979.stm | Middle East | King Herod's ancient tomb 'found' 8 May 2007, 16:23 GMT 17:23 Herod's ancient tomb 'found' Archaeologists believe this is the podium of Herod's tomb An Israeli archaeologist says he has found the tomb of King Herod, the ruler of Judea while it was under Roman administration in the first century BC. After a search of more than 30 years, Ehud Netzer of the Hebrew University says he has located the tomb at Herodium, a site south of Jerusalem. Herod was noted in the New Testament for his Massacre of the Innocents. Told of Jesus' birth, Herod ordered all children under two in Bethlehem to be killed, the Gospel of Matthew said. According to the New Testament, Jesus' father Joseph was warned of the threat in a dream and fled with his wife and child to Egypt. "When I realised it was the tomb there was great happiness," said Prof Netzer, who has worked at the Herodium site since 1972. Roman-appointed King of Judea from around 37 BC to 4 BC A bloody ruler who killed political rivals Ordered the Massacre of Innocents to protect his throne, the New Testament says Behind ambitious building projects including expanding Second Jewish Temple and walls around Jerusalem "Everyone has an interest in the Holy Land and Herod's tomb is part of that story." It was an ancient staircase built for Herod's funeral procession - described in detail by First Century historian Josephus Flavius - that led Prof Netzer's team to the hill-top burial site. "The monumental stairs were built specifically for the funeral," Prof Netzer said. At the site, archaeologists found a smashed limestone sarcophagus that, when whole, would have been around 2.5m (8ft) long. Ornate rosette decorations on the fragments alerted the team to the coffin's significance. No bones were found at the site. Prof Netzer said that they had likely been removed by Jewish rebels who fought against Rome between 66 and 72 AD. The site at Herodium is in the West Bank, occupied by Israel since 1967. Palestinians officials have in the past complained about what they see as the theft and commercial exploitation of their artefacts. If the find is confirmed, this will rank as a major archaeological discovery, BBC Jerusalem correspondent Tim Franks says. Experts have always believed that Herod was buried somewhere within the palace complex he had constructed on a flattened hilltop in the Judean desert, but they had repeatedly struggled to find any evidence to back up their theories. Herod was appointed "King of the Jews" by the Roman authorities and ruled Judea from 37 BC until his death in around 4 BC. He is known for his expansion of the Second Jewish Temple and the construction of walls around the Old City of Jerusalem. He also built the fortress of Masada, which became the last stand of Jewish rebels in 73 AD. AND AUDIO NEWS The site where Herod's tomb is believed to be In Jerusalem archaeology is politics 09 Feb 07 | Middle East Herod's grisly death probed by doctors 26 Jan 02 | Health BBC Religion: King Herod MIDDLE EAST STORIES Clashes follow new Gaza operation Iraq leader says troops must stay New Jerusalem settlement planned
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6645161.stm Aboriginal remains fight resolved 10 May 2007, 23:29 GMT 00:29 remains fight resolved The museum has many thousands on human items in its collection London's Natural History Museum has struck a deal with Australian aboriginal leaders over the remains of 17 indigenous Tasmanians it holds. The museum had agreed to return the remains to Tasmania, but not until tests were carried out on the bones. But Tasmanian aborigines viewed the tests as a desecration of their beliefs and took their case to the High Court. Under the settlement, four DNA samples from the 19th Century specimens will be preserved in Tasmania. The remains - including teeth, skulls and other bones removed from the island - will be turned over to a delegation from the Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre (TAC) in a private ceremony at the museum on Friday. The agreement means that scientists are not able to complete all the tests they had originally planned. But a Natural History Museum (NHM) spokesperson said the investigations were "conducted to a high level". She said museum researchers had extracted as much information as they could under limits on testing imposed in the High Court. "The decision by the museum's trustees in November last year represented a willingness to move on from past practices," said Richard Lane, the NHM director of science. "We're very pleased that we've been able to persuade them to preserve the DNA. We're actually quite enthusiastic that we've come to a constructive agreement. Both parties have travelled a long way," he told BBC news. Although the museum agreed to return the remains last year, it had maintained the right to continue testing them - taking casts and photographs and subjecting the specimens to CT scans and measurements. But TAC contested this part of the decision and initiated legal proceedings. In February 2007, an injunction was issued preventing the museum from studying the remains any further. This was subsequently lifted after the museum said it would limit its tests. Researchers would no longer use "invasive" techniques such as DNA extraction or isotope analysis, the museum agreed. These procedures might have yielded insight into the Aborigines' genetic make-up, their diet and aspects of their culture. Under the agreement now reached, DNA samples from four of the remains will be preserved in Tasmania under the joint control of the NHM and the TAC. These samples were extracted from the remains before the decision was taken to return them. "We have to work with the TAC for a framework that allows scientists to have access [to the DNA samples]. We have no preconceptions about how that is going to work," Professor Lane said. TAC representative Greg Brown told BBC News: "Now we have some power and say over what happens. Nothing can happen to the DNA samples unless it has the joint approval of the parties. "There are a lot of sensitivities over the use of DNA by our people and we want to have control over what happens with that." He could not comment on what types of research the TAC might find offensive, but said decisions would be made in consultation with the whole community. Mr Brown added that aboriginal leaders believed the samples should eventually be buried. The TAC objects to testing because it desecrates the beliefs of its community. The dead are said to be "souls in torment" until properly buried, according to aboriginal custom. The Tasmanian materials were largely collected in the 19th Century by George Augustus Robinson, who had been contracted by the colonial government of the day to clear lands by force for European settlers. On his death, the remains were passed into the possession of other individuals and eventually deposited in UK institutions, and then gradually brought under the keeping of the Natural History Museum. Scientists in the UK say the Tasmanian remains could shed light on human evolution, and particularly on the colonisation of Australia. Tasmanian populations appear to have been isolated from mainland aboriginal Australians for 10,000 years until the arrival of Europeans in the 19th Century. According to the TAC, there were around 8,000 Aboriginals in Tasmania when the British settled the island in 1802, but by 1850 there were just 47 left, after thousands were killed in massacres and or by disease brought in by the colonists. court fight delayed 22 Feb remains tests halted 12 Feb 07 | London Museum returns aboriginal remains 17 Nov 06 | London Museums free to move human parts 05 Oct 05 | UK Bone return consultation launched 28 Jul 04 | Science/Nature leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6616307.stm Climate action 'needs devolution' 4 May 2007, 08:23 GMT 09:23 action 'needs devolution' "Think global, act local" is the well-worn catchphrase to encourage people to cut their carbon emissions. But, as Matthew Spencer argues in this week's Green Room, there is little sign of local communities being given the powers they need in the battle against climate change. We can only tackle this global problem if we make climate change a very local issue Send us your comments It is a truism that all global climate change is local. Global carbon emission levels reflect the billions of small decisions taken on energy everyday in every town, village and city around the world. It's therefore strange that so little attention has been paid to the role of local decision-making in tackling climate change. Our politicians invest increasing amounts of political capital on international climate negotiations, and occasionally pay for national campaigns telling us "to do our bit", but they show little interest in supporting local decision-making on energy. This is because most of them don't believe it is necessary. The dominant view, expressed clearly by the Stern Report, is that a combination of international diplomacy, carbon pricing and incentives for technology investment will save us. But this approach misses one vital element: the personal motivation to act. You simply cannot regulate or innovate enough to tackle the problem without first stimulating a genuine desire to take action. The new Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on mitigation confirms that social and behavioral issues are a major constraint on action to reduce carbon emissions. The Scottish Executive has been successful in implementing ambitious policies to support renewable energy There is powerful evidence of this from the last 10 years of UK climate policy, which demonstrates that many of us do not respond to pricing signals on energy efficiency, and that investment in renewable energy often does not translate into projects on the ground. The reasons are well known: individual motivations and local concerns come into play, and often block low carbon behaviour on energy. As a result, millions of pounds are wasted every year by consumers who are too busy to take up energy saving measures. It's also why the government's renewable targets will not be met as councils turn down many green energy schemes in favour of "local interests". We can only tackle this global problem if we make climate change a very local issue. At the moment it is seen as a distant and conceptual problem that is frequently trumped by short-term local and individual interests when it comes to the small decisions we all make on travel, heating and electric power. It is no coincidence that some of the strongest action on climate change has come from the places where the most power has been devolved to local decision makers. The Scottish Executive has been successful in implementing ambitious policies to support renewable energy and is now leading the UK on wind power, with strong public backing. The Mayor of London has used his planning power to shake up energy standards in new buildings, and is aiming for 60% cuts in carbon by 2025, 25 years ahead of the government's target. In Denmark, famous for its success in renewables, the political culture of strong local government has been critical to the development of energy service companies. A number of local councils in Britain use the powers they do have on planning to block renewable energy schemes The widespread use of high-efficiency heat networks in the major cities has been led by municipally owned energy supply companies. In the UK, the work of Woking and Merton councils on local energy is famous, but it is largely the result of strong-willed individuals with vision and determination who are prepared to work against the system to get things done. There is a huge gulf between this "best practice" and the rest. In fact, in the absence of clear responsibilities on climate change, a number of local councils in Britain use the powers they do have on planning to block renewable energy schemes. UK Communities Secretary Ruth Kelly has said she wants government to "get off the centralising tread mill", and wants climate change to be the first test of the new relationship between central and local government. In a recent speech on climate change, Mrs Kelly encouraged local councils to "step up to it" and "seize it", but it is not clear what she thinks "it" would look like if it was seized, and she provided no significant new powers or duties to local councils on carbon reduction. Ms Kelly should be working towards a major shift in responsibility from central to local government for tackling carbon emissions, rather than adopting a voluntary, incremental approach. Power to the people Councils need similar powers to the ones enjoyed by London's mayor In return for new powers, councils should have their funding directly linked to achieving challenging carbon reduction targets. The UK government's approach to climate change has been driven by outcomes, and largely ignores the services we need to live lower impact lives. Local authorities could change this by offering a new national climate service, providing free independent advice to householders and businesses on energy saving and renewable energy. The recent experience of DIY store B&Q's huge sales of micro-wind turbines suggests that some people's "willingness to pay" to tackle climate change is very high, and it is now the absence of clear authoritative advice, rather than financial incentives, that is often the biggest constraint to taking action. The Mayor of London is setting up a "Green Concierge" service to meet this need, and to negotiate favourable deals on energy technology for citizens. We need such a service in every local authority area in the UK. The UK government may not yet be convinced that supporting local decision-making is important in its own right, but if its renewed interest in devolution is translated into new powers and responsibilities for local government, we will greatly increase our capacity to respond to climate change. The competition we have seen for political leadership on climate change at a national level will be repeated in local government if councillors are given greater clout. Such leadership is essential if we are to close the gap between the gestures of big politics and what really happens on the ground. Matthew Spencer is chief executive of Regen SW, the renewable energy agency for South West England The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Tackling climate change effectively means giving power to local communities. Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans Time to tax the carbon dodgers End of oil heralds climate pain leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6645987.stm Bandwidth leap for British forces 11 May 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 leap for British forces Skynet 5 is already supporting operations in Afghanistan UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq have started using a new satellite system that will see a dramatic improvement in their communications capability. They are now sending voice, images and other data over the Skynet 5A platform. The spacecraft, which was launched in March, is part of a £3.6bn project to upgrade the super-fast connections between command centres. "It's making a clear difference already," Brigadier Simon Shadbolt at the Ministry of Defence told BBC News. "In Afghanistan, where we've been using the system probably more than in Iraq, our troops have seen a noticeable increase in capability." Skynet 5A was launched from Kourou in French Guiana on 11 March. It is the first in what will eventually be a three-spacecraft constellation providing satcoms support to the Army, Royal Navy and RAF, wherever they might be operating across the globe. There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit Malcolm Peto, Paradigm Secure Communications The spacecraft match the sophistication of the very latest civilian platforms used to pass TV, phone and internet traffic - but are "hardened" for military use. They incorporate novel antenna technology that will resist attempts to hijack or "jam" the platforms. Click here to see how the system will be deployed Skynet 5A together with its sister platforms, 5B and 5C (an in-orbit spare), provide two-and-a-half times the bandwidth capacity of the previous system. Over the course of the next few years, they will gradually take over the traffic currently passed through four Skynet 4 spacecraft. And it is expected Skynet 5 will experience heavy demand. Skynet 5A has been tested and pressed into service Information is now key to successful modern military operations. Good examples are the growth in the use of intelligence imagery and the rise of remote-controlled weapons. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) produce large volumes of still and moving pictures that need to be sent over networks for analysis and attack planning. Skynet will be particularly useful when the UK takes delivery of Predator B drones for use in Afghanistan. "Skynet gives us capacity - a two-and-a-half times capability enhancement; it's assured - commanders want to know they will get through each time they press the send button; and it's also resilient against computer-based threats," said Brigadier Shadbolt. The Ministry of Defence does not own the Skynet system; the military merely buys the services run over it from a company called Paradigm Secure Communications. This arrangement - the most expensive Private Finance Initiative (PFI) signed by the MoD - allows for spare bandwidth on the new satellites to be sold to "friendly" forces, earning money not just for Paradigm but for the defence department as well. Information is now key to successful modern military operations Paradigm is already providing services to Nato, France, Germany, Canada, Portugal and the Netherlands. It is actively seeking new business in the US, Australia and the Middle East. "There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit because a huge lump of risk was retired. It was a job well done," said Malcolm Peto, managing director of Paradigm Secure Communications. "We're now looking forward to the launch of 5B towards the end of this year, and 5C around the middle of next year; full operational service will come in 2008." Ground control segments for the new system have been upgraded; and ships, planes and land vehicles are being equipped to make the best use of the upgraded Skynet. THE SKYNET 5 MILITARY SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM The satellites are 'hardened' against interference. A special receive antenna (1) can resist attempts at jamming Each spacecraft has four steerable antennas (2) that can concentrate bandwidth on to particular regions The system gives global coverage (3), providing 2.5 times the capacity afforded by the previous system Each spacecraft (4) is a 3x4x4.5m box and weighs just under 5 tonnes; the solar wings once unfurled measure 34m tip to tip Improved technologies, including a solar 'sail' (5), lengthen the platforms' operational lives to at least 15 years Click here to return AND AUDIO NEWS European rocket powers to record 04 May Skynet satellite launched 12 Mar looks to spirit of Robot Wars 28 Nov 06 | UK Ariane sends satellites to orbit 08 Dec leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/south_of_scotland/6647545.stm | South of Scotland | Red squirrel dies from deadly pox 11 May 2007, 16:58 GMT 17:58 squirrel dies from deadly pox The squirrel was found displaying symptoms of the virus The first case of a red squirrel dying in Scotland as a result of the squirrel pox virus has been confirmed. The animal, which was displaying classic symptoms of the virus, was found near Lockerbie, Dumfries and Galloway, on Tuesday. The squirrel was euthanised following an examination at the South of Scotland Wildlife Hospital, Dumfries. Edinburgh vets then confirmed squirrel pox. The virus is carried by non-native grey squirrels. Conservationists have been working hard to try and stop the virus coming over the border into Scotland, and until now had been successful. We are very concerned about the spread of the virus into red squirrels in Scotland Intensive control measures have been in place since its presence in Scotland was first detected in invasive populations of grey squirrels in May 2005. Although the virus is fatal to red squirrels, greys remain unaffected by the disease. Scottish Natural Heritage currently has two grey squirrel control officers working in the south of Scotland. Professor Colin Galbraith, director of policy and advice at Scottish Natural Heritage, said: "SNH has been working with the Southern Upland Partnership to monitor the squirrel pox situation in grey squirrels in the south of Scotland for the past six months. "We were aware that the virus been found in a red squirrel less than a mile south of the border and had feared that, at some point, the disease would transfer to the red squirrels in Scotland. The red squirrels contract the virus from non-native grey squirrels "Targeted grey squirrel control in the area has undoubtedly delayed the progression of the disease to Scottish red squirrels and we will continue our intensive grey squirrel control in the affected areas to allow further time to investigate the development of a vaccine." He said the squirrel control officers would continue to monitor and test squirrels to minimise the spread of the disease. Local red squirrel conservation officer Ann-Marie MacMaster urged the public to report red or grey squirrels which appeared to be ill. "Once red squirrels develop lesions, they are extremely infectious," she said. "We would also ask people in the Lockerbie area especially not to encourage the two species of squirrel together through the use of feeders as this may facilitate the spread of the disease." Gordon Patterson, biodiversity policy adviser for the Forestry Commission Scotland, said: "We are very concerned about the spread of the virus into red squirrels in Scotland. "Our staff are already involved in the monitoring work and we will now look out with extra vigilance for any signs of diseased red squirrels in the area and report them to the project team." Tests on the squirrel's body were carried out at the Moredun Research Institute, Edinburgh. The red squirrel is one of the most threatened species of mammal in the UK with 75% (121,000 animals) of the population estimated to be found in Scotland. In February 2007, the Scottish Executive awarded a two-year contract to investigate the development of a vaccine against squirrel pox virus. 'setback' for red squirrels 15 Feb 07 | North West Wales 'Wall' to protect red squirrels 20 Sep 06 | South of Scotland Red squirrel dies of deadly virus 17 Jul 06 | Merseyside Red squirrel forest 'stronghold' 15 Jun 06 | South of Scotland Grey squirrel cull bounties urged 11 Jun 06 | Scotland Red squirrel extinction warning 27 Feb 06 | Scotland SNH - Red Squirrels Red Squirrels in the South of Scotland South of Scotland Wildlife Hospital SOUTH OF SCOTLAND STORIES Council leader set to retain role Tory stands for presiding officer Red squirrel dies from deadly pox
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6633609.stm Star dies in monstrous explosion 8 May 2007, 03:35 GMT 04:35 dies in monstrous explosion SN 2006gy impression: The most powerful supernova yet recorded A massive star about 150 times the size of the Sun exploded in what could be a long-sought new type of supernova, Nasa scientists have said. Supernovae occur when huge, mature stars effectively run out of fuel and collapse in on themselves. But scientists believe this one was obliterated in an explosion which blasted all its material into space. And astronomers say a star in our own galaxy could soon appear to blow apart with the same celestial fireworks. The supernova star, called SN 2006gy, was originally discovered in September last year. The explosion peaked for about 70 days, during which it is thought to have shone about five times more brightly than any supernova seen in the past. "Of all exploding stars ever observed, this was the king," Alex Filippenko, one of the Nasa-backed astronomers observing the phenomenon, said. Nathan Smith, who led a joint team from the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Texas in Austin, said it was a "truly monstrous explosion, a hundred times more energetic than a typical supernova". "That means the star that exploded might have been as massive as a star can get, about 150 times that of our Sun. We've never seen that before." Eta Carinae's explosion could be the best star-show in the history of modern civilization He said the explosion, which was located some 240 million light-years away, polluted the surrounding environment with metals and elements that are needed for life. Scientists say that the star which blew apart is similar to Eta Carinae, an enormous star in our own Milky Way, 7,500 light-years from Earth. They note that before SN 2006gy went supernova, it expelled a large amount of material. Telescopes now see something similar occurring at Eta Carinae, prompting speculation that this star could soon show up as a similar type of supernova. Dave Pooley, at the University of California at Berkeley, said if Eta Carinae were observed to explode "it would be so bright that you would see it during the day, and you could even read a book by its light at night". He added there had not been a supernova witnessed in the Earth's Milky Way galaxy for more than 400 years. Mario Livio, of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, said that Eta Carinae could be seen to explode at any time. "We don't know for sure if Eta Carinae will explode soon, but we had better keep a close eye on it just in case," he was quoted by AFP as saying. "Eta Carinae's explosion could be the best star-show in the history of modern civilisation," he said. The latest SN 2006gy results will appear in the Astrophysical Journal. They incorporate observations from the Lick, Keck and Chandra observatories. AND AUDIO NEWS Nasa animation of the supernova Exploding star 'breaks the rules' 21 Sep captured in 'real time' 30 Aug 'soon to become supernova' 23 Jul looks to go to the edge 10 Apr leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6633609.stm Star dies in monstrous explosion 8 May 2007, 03:35 GMT 04:35 dies in monstrous explosion SN 2006gy impression: The most powerful supernova yet recorded A massive star about 150 times the size of the Sun exploded in what could be a long-sought new type of supernova, Nasa scientists have said. Supernovae occur when huge, mature stars effectively run out of fuel and collapse in on themselves. But scientists believe this one was obliterated in an explosion which blasted all its material into space. And astronomers say a star in our own galaxy could soon appear to blow apart with the same celestial fireworks. The supernova star, called SN 2006gy, was originally discovered in September last year. The explosion peaked for about 70 days, during which it is thought to have shone about five times more brightly than any supernova seen in the past. "Of all exploding stars ever observed, this was the king," Alex Filippenko, one of the Nasa-backed astronomers observing the phenomenon, said. Nathan Smith, who led a joint team from the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Texas in Austin, said it was a "truly monstrous explosion, a hundred times more energetic than a typical supernova". "That means the star that exploded might have been as massive as a star can get, about 150 times that of our Sun. We've never seen that before." Eta Carinae's explosion could be the best star-show in the history of modern civilization He said the explosion, which was located some 240 million light-years away, polluted the surrounding environment with metals and elements that are needed for life. Scientists say that the star which blew apart is similar to Eta Carinae, an enormous star in our own Milky Way, 7,500 light-years from Earth. They note that before SN 2006gy went supernova, it expelled a large amount of material. Telescopes now see something similar occurring at Eta Carinae, prompting speculation that this star could soon show up as a similar type of supernova. Dave Pooley, at the University of California at Berkeley, said if Eta Carinae were observed to explode "it would be so bright that you would see it during the day, and you could even read a book by its light at night". He added there had not been a supernova witnessed in the Earth's Milky Way galaxy for more than 400 years. Mario Livio, of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore, said that Eta Carinae could be seen to explode at any time. "We don't know for sure if Eta Carinae will explode soon, but we had better keep a close eye on it just in case," he was quoted by AFP as saying. "Eta Carinae's explosion could be the best star-show in the history of modern civilisation," he said. The latest SN 2006gy results will appear in the Astrophysical Journal. They incorporate observations from the Lick, Keck and Chandra observatories. AND AUDIO NEWS Nasa animation of the supernova Exploding star 'breaks the rules' 21 Sep captured in 'real time' 30 Aug 'soon to become supernova' 23 Jul looks to go to the edge 10 Apr leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6645987.stm Bandwidth leap for British forces 11 May 2007, 11:37 GMT 12:37 leap for British forces Skynet 5 is already supporting operations in Afghanistan UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq have started using a new satellite system that will see a dramatic improvement in their communications capability. They are now sending voice, images and other data over the Skynet 5A platform. The spacecraft, which was launched in March, is part of a £3.6bn project to upgrade the super-fast connections between command centres. "It's making a clear difference already," Brigadier Simon Shadbolt at the Ministry of Defence told BBC News. "In Afghanistan, where we've been using the system probably more than in Iraq, our troops have seen a noticeable increase in capability." Skynet 5A was launched from Kourou in French Guiana on 11 March. It is the first in what will eventually be a three-spacecraft constellation providing satcoms support to the Army, Royal Navy and RAF, wherever they might be operating across the globe. There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit Malcolm Peto, Paradigm Secure Communications The spacecraft match the sophistication of the very latest civilian platforms used to pass TV, phone and internet traffic - but are "hardened" for military use. They incorporate novel antenna technology that will resist attempts to hijack or "jam" the platforms. Click here to see how the system will be deployed Skynet 5A together with its sister platforms, 5B and 5C (an in-orbit spare), provide two-and-a-half times the bandwidth capacity of the previous system. Over the course of the next few years, they will gradually take over the traffic currently passed through four Skynet 4 spacecraft. And it is expected Skynet 5 will experience heavy demand. Skynet 5A has been tested and pressed into service Information is now key to successful modern military operations. Good examples are the growth in the use of intelligence imagery and the rise of remote-controlled weapons. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) produce large volumes of still and moving pictures that need to be sent over networks for analysis and attack planning. Skynet will be particularly useful when the UK takes delivery of Predator B drones for use in Afghanistan. "Skynet gives us capacity - a two-and-a-half times capability enhancement; it's assured - commanders want to know they will get through each time they press the send button; and it's also resilient against computer-based threats," said Brigadier Shadbolt. The Ministry of Defence does not own the Skynet system; the military merely buys the services run over it from a company called Paradigm Secure Communications. This arrangement - the most expensive Private Finance Initiative (PFI) signed by the MoD - allows for spare bandwidth on the new satellites to be sold to "friendly" forces, earning money not just for Paradigm but for the defence department as well. Information is now key to successful modern military operations Paradigm is already providing services to Nato, France, Germany, Canada, Portugal and the Netherlands. It is actively seeking new business in the US, Australia and the Middle East. "There was a huge sigh of relief when Skynet 5A went into orbit because a huge lump of risk was retired. It was a job well done," said Malcolm Peto, managing director of Paradigm Secure Communications. "We're now looking forward to the launch of 5B towards the end of this year, and 5C around the middle of next year; full operational service will come in 2008." Ground control segments for the new system have been upgraded; and ships, planes and land vehicles are being equipped to make the best use of the upgraded Skynet. THE SKYNET 5 MILITARY SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM The satellites are 'hardened' against interference. A special receive antenna (1) can resist attempts at jamming Each spacecraft has four steerable antennas (2) that can concentrate bandwidth on to particular regions The system gives global coverage (3), providing 2.5 times the capacity afforded by the previous system Each spacecraft (4) is a 3x4x4.5m box and weighs just under 5 tonnes; the solar wings once unfurled measure 34m tip to tip Improved technologies, including a solar 'sail' (5), lengthen the platforms' operational lives to at least 15 years Click here to return AND AUDIO NEWS European rocket powers to record 04 May Skynet satellite launched 12 Mar looks to spirit of Robot Wars 28 Nov 06 | UK Ariane sends satellites to orbit 08 Dec leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6596427.stm Science holds key to greener future 26 April 2007, 21:19 GMT 22:19 holds key to greener future The environmental problems facing the world in the 21st Century are the legacy of human activities, argues Sir David King. But he says, in this week's Green Room, we also hold the key to solving these problems by attracting the brightest young minds into the world of science. It is easy in our day-to-day lives to believe we are detached from the wider environment, but that is an illusion Send us your comments Mankind has never had a greater need for science, and for the spark of human ingenuity to apply this to tackling today's great global challenges. Built on centuries of tradition and endeavour, the UK is second to none in the diversity and excellence of its scientific heritage. Our nation punches well above its weight in the quality and number of academic papers and citations, above Germany, France and Japan, and trailing only the far bigger economy of the US. It is vital therefore that we pay equal regard to ensuring that the UK's outstanding scientific outputs flow through to enhance the quality of life and prosperity for people in the UK, and beyond. The challenges facing science, and humanity, as we move through the 21st Century are manifold. I would place none higher than the test we face in our stewardship of planet Earth. Even with our best efforts, we must be prepared for further global temperature rise as a result of past emissions It is a stern test, as demonstrated by a few stark facts. From around three billion people on the planet in 1950, global population has risen to over six billion today. By the middle of this century, it will exceed nine billion. Most future population growth will be in the developing world, where people quite reasonably aspire to the living standards enjoyed today by "western societies", such as our own. Yet it is estimated that, even with today's population, we would need the resources of three planets for people across the world to imitate western lifestyles. I do not advocate a hairshirt future, but clearly we need to find new ways to develop both our lifestyles and the planet we share. Negative impacts will dominate in all regions, says Sir David It is easy in our day-to-day lives to believe we are detached from the wider environment, but that is an illusion. Climate change presents us with a particular stringent test, which unmitigated will magnify many of the existing scourges of mankind: famine, drought, flood, disease and conflict. The scientific evidence is compelling beyond any reasonable doubt that unless we very radically transform our economies to reduce greenhouse emissions to a fraction of current levels then future generations will reap a heavy price. Indeed, the signals are already with us of the sort of changes that we can expect to continue and accelerate, as land ice melts, sea levels rise and extreme weather events become more severe. Even with our best efforts, we must be prepared for further global temperature rise as a result of past emissions, and the climate impacts associated with this. The outcome will initially be mixed, with positive and negative effects depending where in the world you live and on other factors. But in time the negative impacts will dominate in all regions, and will fall earliest and heaviest on the poorest countries, which are least able to adapt and which have contributed least to the problem. Carbon levels in the atmosphere continue to rise It will take an unprecedented international effort if we are to avoid the most dangerous climate changes that are predicted, and for individual countries to adapt to those impacts it is already too late for us to avoid. From climate change I move to another linked challenge - energy. Since the industrial revolution, fossil fuels have powered our economies and brought new levels of prosperity. But by releasing into the atmosphere carbon, as carbon dioxide, that has been naturally sequestered underground over tens to hundreds of millions of years, we have raised concentration levels in the atmosphere in just 150 years beyond anything seen for at least one million years, and probably far longer. At the same time, world energy demand is expected to rise by half as much again by 2030. Even with a major push on energy efficiency, there is a critical need for step changes in the pace at which we deploy current low-carbon technologies in developed and developing countries alike; and we must quickly advance the more innovative technologies such as carbon capture and storage, wave and tidal power, and solar photovoltaics. There are no simple solutions and there is certainly no single "silver bullet" technological fix. The pathway for advancing new energy technologies to technical and economic viability at scale is complex, difficult and inevitably takes time, even with major efforts to accelerate progress. The £1bn public/private Energy Technology Institute, launched by the UK Government, is an important new initiative in this area, providing good starting levels of investment, focus and ambition, and I hope in time will develop as part of a global network of similar centres of excellence. There has never been a greater need for inquisitive and determined young minds to develop the solutions needed for the 21st Century Nor can we tackle the problem by focusing on one sector alone. It is not a question of whether we should reduce emissions from our vehicles, or our houses, or industry, or in aviation or shipping, or through curbing deforestation. The scale of the challenge is such that we must do all of these things, whilst using our actions as a stimulus to galvanise the wider international response. And we must continue to prosper, not just for our own sakes but because those we seek to influence will not follow our lead if they perceive that environmental sustainability means economic decline. It is a powerful demonstration that in the UK we have been able to grow our economy in real terms by around half since 1990, whilst greenhouse gas emissions have fallen by 15%. Action is affordable and is the pro-growth strategy. It is inaction that we cannot afford. Returning to where I began, science and technological innovation must be at the heart of the UK's approach as we tackle these and other of the great national and global challenges we face in the century ahead. But science does need to be redirected to meet these challenges. My message to any young person today mulling over their future career path is this: there has never been a better time to consider a future in scientific discovery; or in engineering to bring innovative technologies to real world application. And there has never been a greater need for inquisitive and determined young minds to develop the solutions needed for the 21st Century. Sir David King is the UK Government's chief scientific adviser The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Tackling climate change effectively means giving power to local communities. Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans Time to tax the carbon dodgers End of oil heralds climate pain Department for Trade and Industry leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/ BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6616307.stm Climate action 'needs devolution' 4 May 2007, 08:23 GMT 09:23 action 'needs devolution' "Think global, act local" is the well-worn catchphrase to encourage people to cut their carbon emissions. But, as Matthew Spencer argues in this week's Green Room, there is little sign of local communities being given the powers they need in the battle against climate change. We can only tackle this global problem if we make climate change a very local issue Send us your comments It is a truism that all global climate change is local. Global carbon emission levels reflect the billions of small decisions taken on energy everyday in every town, village and city around the world. It's therefore strange that so little attention has been paid to the role of local decision-making in tackling climate change. Our politicians invest increasing amounts of political capital on international climate negotiations, and occasionally pay for national campaigns telling us "to do our bit", but they show little interest in supporting local decision-making on energy. This is because most of them don't believe it is necessary. The dominant view, expressed clearly by the Stern Report, is that a combination of international diplomacy, carbon pricing and incentives for technology investment will save us. But this approach misses one vital element: the personal motivation to act. You simply cannot regulate or innovate enough to tackle the problem without first stimulating a genuine desire to take action. The new Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report on mitigation confirms that social and behavioral issues are a major constraint on action to reduce carbon emissions. The Scottish Executive has been successful in implementing ambitious policies to support renewable energy There is powerful evidence of this from the last 10 years of UK climate policy, which demonstrates that many of us do not respond to pricing signals on energy efficiency, and that investment in renewable energy often does not translate into projects on the ground. The reasons are well known: individual motivations and local concerns come into play, and often block low carbon behaviour on energy. As a result, millions of pounds are wasted every year by consumers who are too busy to take up energy saving measures. It's also why the government's renewable targets will not be met as councils turn down many green energy schemes in favour of "local interests". We can only tackle this global problem if we make climate change a very local issue. At the moment it is seen as a distant and conceptual problem that is frequently trumped by short-term local and individual interests when it comes to the small decisions we all make on travel, heating and electric power. It is no coincidence that some of the strongest action on climate change has come from the places where the most power has been devolved to local decision makers. The Scottish Executive has been successful in implementing ambitious policies to support renewable energy and is now leading the UK on wind power, with strong public backing. The Mayor of London has used his planning power to shake up energy standards in new buildings, and is aiming for 60% cuts in carbon by 2025, 25 years ahead of the government's target. In Denmark, famous for its success in renewables, the political culture of strong local government has been critical to the development of energy service companies. A number of local councils in Britain use the powers they do have on planning to block renewable energy schemes The widespread use of high-efficiency heat networks in the major cities has been led by municipally owned energy supply companies. In the UK, the work of Woking and Merton councils on local energy is famous, but it is largely the result of strong-willed individuals with vision and determination who are prepared to work against the system to get things done. There is a huge gulf between this "best practice" and the rest. In fact, in the absence of clear responsibilities on climate change, a number of local councils in Britain use the powers they do have on planning to block renewable energy schemes. UK Communities Secretary Ruth Kelly has said she wants government to "get off the centralising tread mill", and wants climate change to be the first test of the new relationship between central and local government. In a recent speech on climate change, Mrs Kelly encouraged local councils to "step up to it" and "seize it", but it is not clear what she thinks "it" would look like if it was seized, and she provided no significant new powers or duties to local councils on carbon reduction. Ms Kelly should be working towards a major shift in responsibility from central to local government for tackling carbon emissions, rather than adopting a voluntary, incremental approach. Power to the people Councils need similar powers to the ones enjoyed by London's mayor In return for new powers, councils should have their funding directly linked to achieving challenging carbon reduction targets. The UK government's approach to climate change has been driven by outcomes, and largely ignores the services we need to live lower impact lives. Local authorities could change this by offering a new national climate service, providing free independent advice to householders and businesses on energy saving and renewable energy. The recent experience of DIY store B&Q's huge sales of micro-wind turbines suggests that some people's "willingness to pay" to tackle climate change is very high, and it is now the absence of clear authoritative advice, rather than financial incentives, that is often the biggest constraint to taking action. The Mayor of London is setting up a "Green Concierge" service to meet this need, and to negotiate favourable deals on energy technology for citizens. We need such a service in every local authority area in the UK. The UK government may not yet be convinced that supporting local decision-making is important in its own right, but if its renewed interest in devolution is translated into new powers and responsibilities for local government, we will greatly increase our capacity to respond to climate change. The competition we have seen for political leadership on climate change at a national level will be repeated in local government if councillors are given greater clout. Such leadership is essential if we are to close the gap between the gestures of big politics and what really happens on the ground. Matthew Spencer is chief executive of Regen SW, the renewable energy agency for South West England The Green Room is a series of opinion pieces on environmental topics running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Tackling climate change effectively means giving power to local communities. Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans Time to tax the carbon dodgers End of oil heralds climate pain leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/6632179.stm | Portrait of a perfect murder 7 May 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 of a perfect murder Most murderers are unaware of even the simplest clues that might give them away. But by thinking like a forensic scientist, is the "perfect" murder possible? The so-called perfect murder - an undetectable crime where the killer gets away scot free - has long been the stuff of mystery fiction. From the icicle to the leg of lamb, authors have strived to come up with more imaginative weapons and crimes than their predecessors. But would any of these ingenious methods work? Staging a death to look like an accident is one of the first things an aspiring murderer might try. But when a pathologist examines the body of the victim they're not just looking for the cause of death. Other minor injuries - like bruising from a struggle, or scratch marks where a body has been dragged - can reveal a murder. If you're dumping a body, of course you don't think where's the hypostasis, you just dump the body and run Another important clue is hypostasis. When someone dies their blood pressure falls, and gravity makes the blood pool in those regions of the body closest to the ground. This red staining is clearly visible, and can reveal the position of the body at death. If a body is found lying on its right-hand side, but the red staining due to hypostasis is down the left-hand side, then the body has clearly been moved. "It gives us a very important clue," says pathologist Dr Richard Shepherd. "If you're dumping a body, of course you don't think where's the hypostasis, you just dump the body and run." The body can reveal a lot of secrets, so a number of killers have tried to get rid of their victim's body altogether. In the 1940s the "acid bath murderer" John Haigh attempted to dissolve the bodies of six victims in sulphuric acid. This destroys bones and tissue but it can't digest fats - or plastic. This is how John Haigh was caught. A pair of dentures, a red plastic handbag, and three human gallstones - covered in a layer of fat - were retrieved from the acid sludge found at his workshop. One mistake and a killer is caught Another method of body disposal comes from forensic scientists themselves. DNA expert Eleanor Graham at the University of Leicester says: "It was developed for situations like the mass graves in Bosnia Herzegovina, where you find mostly skeletonised remains, but a bit of soft tissue adhering. "You need to clean these bones up and to preserve the DNA for identification purposes. The old systems included boiling at high temperatures which was extremely destructive to the DNA." What these scientists now do is simply heat the remains gently with biological washing powder. The biological enzymes eat away at the flesh, leaving just the bones behind. This would certainly make a murder more difficult to investigate but not impossible. Some people are more likely to deposit their DNA than other people Gunshot and knife wounds may still be visible on the bones, and any blow with a blunt instrument is likely to have shattered or cracked them. But there is a weapon that wouldn't leave visible evidence behind. It's the one professional assassins favour - poison. The victim may not even realise what's happened until the murderer is many miles away. The most recent example is Alexander Litvinenko's poisoning with polonium late last year. It took the investigators weeks to identify the poison, because polonium-210 had never been used in this way before. But what Litvinenko's poisoner may not have realised is that this ingenious poison might also give them away. The alpha radiation given out by polonium-210 can be detected in incredibly small quantities. As the poisoner escaped they were leaving behind a radioactive trail that may yet lead to their capture. This type of trace evidence is the final piece of the perfect murder puzzle. Modern crime scene investigators can spot much more than just fingerprints. The CSI team can pick up tiny fibres of clothing, shoeprints from a carpet, and of course DNA. The world's best detectives are one step ahead And Ms Graham says our DNA may actually make some of us better criminals than others. "Some people are more likely to deposit their DNA than other people. One person could pick up a bottle of water, put it down, you get a full profile. "Another one could drink from it and you wouldn't pick up very much. No one knows exactly why this is but there does seem to be a very big difference." So if someone sheds less DNA, that would reduce the risk of leaving tell-tale evidence. But that's also why the real-life "perfect" murder is likely to fail. It relies too heavily on chance. Every single element must come together perfectly. The forensic scientists need just one mistake and the criminal could be caught. If someone wants to get away with murder their best hope is to be very, very lucky. Horizon: How to commit the perfect murder is on BBC Two at 2100 BST on Tuesday 8 May A selection of your comments appears below. One of the American Mafia bosses had sign above his desk saying something like "the best secret is known by three men, and two of them are dead". The only way to commit a "perfect" murder is by conspiracy and to have bent cops on your side....there is always a mistake, or a link to the killer otherwise. The other way to do a perfect murder would be in a totally random way-like some kind of psycho, killing a stranger then leaving the country. Phil Harrington, Newport S Wales If you want to kill someone and get away with it; run them over. Many car-related crimes are unsolved and killing someone with a car is seen, in our society, as far less serious than doing so with a gun. Has anyone found the white Fiat that was in the underpass with Diana's Merc? The perfect murder was the execution of Charles I. The man had a mask on, there were no forensics then, and despite scores of witnesses, the killer was never even questioned. Nigel Macarthur, London, England Of course there may be thousands of perfect murders a year - the point being that if they are perfect murders then no-one will recognise them as such, they will be suicides, accidents or natural deaths. We therefore have no way of knowing quite how good current forensics are. Perfect Murder? Elvis Presley. Perfect murders happen all the time. Every unsolved murder, every missing person, perhaps. The greatest perfect murders have probably already happened because the police defined them suicides or accidents. So the perfect murder is one that one even thinks is a murder. If people think that shows like Quincy or CSI show how to commit a perfect murder then they are very much mistaken. Both shows are riddled with scientific errors even an A level student would see through. Regardless of forensic evidence, it's still possible to be convicted of murder even without a body being found. John Airey, Peterborough, UK I think that there is the "perfect" murder, but probably just by accident. JonBenet Ramsey is one example. Kara Tyson, Mobile, AL USA This is all very interesting, but is it really responsible journalism? Programs like CSI have already been accused of the "CSI effect" - and they're really just entertainment programs, so the details aren't always realistic or accurate. Even if people don't use your information to get away with crimes, they may think they'll be able to get away with crimes. Therefore, people might commit crimes they'd otherwise have not committed, because of fear of getting caught. There is some information that should be closely guarded - here, the benefit of the information is limited, whilst the potential cost is high. Ankush, get a grip. This article reveals very little, and probably nothing that couldn't be found in an introductory pathology text book. I think that this article is irresponsible. Isn't there enough crime and murders in the world without giving hints on how to create the perfect crime and avoid being caught?! Some people may read this article and find it interesting. However, what about the people who aren't of sound mind? Surely this puts ideas into their head. While I see merit in comments relating to copy-cat style happenings, if someone is willing to commit a murder, they will do it regardless of whether they read/saw something that would 'help' them. There is way too much finger-pointing going on in today's society, what is wrong with portraying an informative subject on a darker matter? It's much better than another show about driving decorated cars too fast or making way for another fickle reality show. Simon Clements-Hawes, Truro, Cornwall Sounds like an interesting programme - pity it clashes with CSI. the legend of Bobby Moore keeps growing, fed by nostalgia and guilt 7 days 7 questions Are you a Smartie? Test yourself Profile of 'everyman' Bertie Ahern How do astronauts 'go' in space? Tony Blair's dramatic quit smoking deadline 9 other newsy facts from the week VISIT THE MAGAZINE INDEX
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6639977.stm | Sounds bring Google Earth to life 10 May 2007, 07:37 GMT 08:37 bring Google Earth to life Google Earth offers satellite images of many parts of the world As well as homing in on visual feasts around the globe, users of Google Earth may soon be able to listen to the sounds that accompany them. A Californian company has created software that can layer relevant recorded sounds over locations in Google Earth, New Scientist reports. Wild Sanctuary has over 3,500 hours of soundscapes from all over the world. The firm is in talks with Google, although no official agreement has yet been made. Its director, Bernie Krause said: "A picture tells a thousand words, but a sound tells a thousand pictures." Dr Krause has spent the last 40 years collecting sounds, and his recordings include more than 15,000 animal noises, and sounds from a huge array of habitats, including cities, deserts, mountains and the marine environment. It is the largest library in existence of natural sound, he said. He said the idea would be to zoom-in on a particular area and then have the option to listen to the accompanying sound. "It could be a real beneficial add-on," he said. The software is to be presented at the Where 2.0 conference in San Jose, California on 29 May. Mr Krause said up to two dozen sounds would be show-cased at first, but many more would be added later. If the project is successful, he would also like to use Google Earth show how sounds change with time. He said: "People will be able to get a sense of before and after. "For example, people are talking about how selective logging is an appropriate way of not harming the environment. "But we have evidence that from the sound perspective, selective logging has a profound effect on the natural world. The pictures of before and after look exactly the same, but the sound is completely different." Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa Nasa and Google form cosmic union 19 Dec 06 | Technology Google Earth prompts Indian fears 05 Feb 07 | Technology Mobiles ring with sounds of the wild 07 Jul 03 | Technology leap for British forces Highest mobile call climb begins
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6621297.stm European rocket powers to record 4 May 2007, 22:36 GMT 23:36 rocket powers to record The Astra 1L satellite weighed about 4,500kg at launch Europe's Ariane 5 rocket has set a new benchmark for a commercial launch - lifting into orbit a two-satellite payload weighing 9.4 tonnes. The immense, 50m-long vehicle powered away from Kourou in French Guiana at 1929 local time (2229 GMT). The Astra 1L and Galaxy 17 platforms it put in space will deliver TV and other services to Europe and North America. Friday's mission represented the second launch of the year for the Ariane 5 and its 32nd flight overall. The launch was delayed by a day because of poor weather over the spaceport on Thursday. The rocket is the workhorse of Europe's commercial launch service, operated by the French-based Arianespace company. In its heavy-lift, or ECA, configuration, the vehicle produces 13,000 kilonewtons of thrust at launch - equivalent to 20 Concorde jets at take-off. Watching the launch in Kourou was US space agency (Nasa) Administrator Dr Mike Griffin. The Nasa chief came to see the rocket that will begin to supply the International Space Station later this year. Europe is preparing a new cargo ship called the Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV), which will carry 7.5 tonnes of experimental equipment, spare parts, food, air and water to astronauts working on the orbiting outpost. The ATV is designed to ride into space on top of an Ariane 5. Skynet satellite launched 12 Mar sends satellites to orbit 08 Dec leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6644697.stm Galileo firms miss key deadline 10 May 2007, 22:25 GMT 23:25 firms miss key deadline The Galileo spacecraft would be launched in batches The private consortium asked to run Europe's satellite navigation system, Galileo, has missed a key EU deadline for moving the project forward. The European Commission (EC) said the companies had made "insufficient progress", resulting in unacceptable delays and risks for public finances. This is likely to mean European taxpayers stepping in to cover an advance payment for construction costs. The EC is expected to present new plans to overhaul the project on 16 May. These will be sent for approval by the EU's transport ministers in June. The consortium comprises leading aerospace and telecom concerns: EADS, Thales, Inmarsat, Alcatel-Lucent, Finmeccanica, AENA, Hispasat, and TeleOp. The Commission set a 10 May deadline for them to come forward with a single company structure to run Galileo, a chief executive and common position from which to negotiate with EU representatives over the future of the project. On Thursday, the Commission announced that the target had not been met to its satisfaction. Michele Cercone, spokesman for the EC's directorate general for transport, said the Commission now intended to propose "different scenarios to put Galileo on the right track again". Galileo's planned network of 30 satellites will beam radio signals to receiving devices on the ground, helping users pinpoint their locations. The system's technologies are designed to bring greater accuracy and reliability to navigation and timing signals delivered from space. A European Commission and European Space Agency project 30 satellites to be launched in batches by end of 2011-12 Will work alongside US GPS and Russian Glonass systems Promises real-time positioning down to less than a metre Guaranteed under all but most extreme circumstances Suitable for safety-critical roles where lives depend on service Europe lofts Galileo satellite Q&A: Europe's Galileo project Galileo puts UK on map The original intention behind Galileo was that taxpayers in the EU would inject more than one billion euros (£0.7bn) into the early development of the project. The deployment phase - the launch of the satellites and the construction of ground stations - was expected to cost at least two billion more, with two-thirds of the investment being borne by the private sector. The latter was also expected to pick up all the running costs in the long term. The first demonstrator spacecraft, Giove-A, is already in orbit. A second, Giove-B, which has had some technical problems, should be in orbit by the year's end. The contract for the first four satellites proper in the final constellation was awarded at the end of 2004, but the time has now come to order the remaining 26. It should be the private concession making this spacecraft order - but with no progress on its formal establishment, it seems certain that European taxpayers will now have to shoulder a greater burden of the construction costs if Galileo is to stay on track. Mr Cercone said this option would be better for Europe's taxpayers in the long run. He likened the alternative options to the difference between leasing a car and buying one. "When you lease a car you pay less at the start, but it turns out more expensive in the end. When you buy a car for cash, you have to come up with the money sooner, but overall the car will cost less," he told a press briefing in Brussels. "If you apply this example to Galileo, it is less expensive to take on the entire construction of the infrastructure than it would be to guarantee for 100% a private loan at market value, as is the plan of the consortium." Under consortium proposals, public money would be used to guarantee the risks and debts of the project. But Mr Cercone said using public money to cover construction costs offered the best value for money and would protect taxpayers. Galileo was supposed to have started launching its 30 satellites by 2008. However, that date was postponed to 2011/12 due to previous disagreements between EU governments on how to pay for the system. AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo versus US satellite navigation system Galileo system 'in a deep crisis' 08 May companies given deadline 22 Mar sat-nav in decisive phase 14 Mar secures extra Galileo cash 31 Aug to Galileo sat-nav system 25 Aug launches Galileo satellite 28 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Navigating future for road charges 29 Dec 05 | Science/Nature European Satellite Navigation Industries Galileo Masters (UK Pages) leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm 4's Midnight News Friday, 11 May 2007, 22:24 GMT 23:24 UK Bandwidth leap for British forces UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq start using their upgraded Skynet satellite communications system. Asian markets push illegal ivory Cross-continental crime syndicates run from East Asia are fuelling a rise in the illegal ivory trade. Aboriginal remains fight resolved London's Natural History Museum reaches a deal over the remains of 17 indigenous Tasmanians. Red squirrel dies from deadly pox Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Galileo firms miss key deadline Tiny marsupial records DNA first Tunnel open again at Silbury hill ALSO IN THE NEWS A wind tunnel and a dash of honey reveal the secrets of bat flight Why protecting whales is about more than preventing hunting How do astronauts deal with 'natural functions' in space? Technology to make hydro-dams more climate friendly VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo struggles to compete Brain controls video game Bats' secret to flying China climate change warning More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet Scientists create 'plastic' blood King Herod's tomb 'found' Portrait of a perfect murder Star dies in monstrous explosion European rocket powers to record Sounds bring Google Earth to life Scientists compile 'book of life' UN warns on impacts of biofuels Grants cut for energy scheme Coconut oil powers island's cars Environmental opinion and debate Climate action 'needs devolution' Science key to green future Tiny marsupial records DNA first Scientists compile 'book of life' Star dies in monstrous explosion How guesswork helps robots navigate around the office The Ukrainian villagers who live confidently on radioactive produce FROM OTHER BBC SITES Experience Earth as never before with unprecedented footage ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6645179.stm | Americas | Nasa unveils Hubble's successor 11 May 2007, 00:00 GMT 01:00 unveils Hubble's successor The model of the JWST is on display in Washington DC. The US space agency Nasa has unveiled a model of a space telescope that scientists say will be able to see to the farthest reaches of the Universe. The James Webb Space Telescope (JWST) is intended to replace the ageing Hubble telescope. It will be larger than its predecessor, sit farther from Earth and have a giant mirror to enable it to see more. Officials said the JWST - named after a former Nasa administrator - was on course for launch in June 2013. The full-scale model is being displayed outside the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum in the US capital, Washington DC. It was recently shown off in Seattle at the American Astronomical Society meeting. The $4.5bn (£2.3bn) telescope will take up a position some 1.5 million km (930,000 miles) from Earth. It will measure 24m (80ft) long by 12m (40ft) high and incorporate a hexagonal mirror 6.5m (21.3ft) in diameter, almost three times the size of Hubble's. Hubble, launched in 1990, has sent back pictures of our solar system, distant stars, and remote fledgling galaxies formed not long after the Big Bang. But scientists say the JWST will enable them to look deeper into space and even further back at the origins of the Universe. "Clearly we need a much bigger telescope to go back much further in time to see the very birth of the Universe," said Edward Weiler, director of Nasa's Goddard Space Flight Centre. Martin Mohan of Northrop Grumman, the contractor building the telescope, said that the team was making excellent progress. "There's engineering to do, but invention is done, more than six years ahead of launch," he said. When ready, the JWST will be launched by a European Ariane 5 rocket. It is expected to have a 10-year lifespan. Until then, the 17-year-old Hubble telescope will continue to do its work. Nasa plans to send astronauts on the space shuttle to service it in 2008. THE JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE JWST is named after James E Webb, Nasa Administrator during the Apollo lunar exploration era; he served from 1961 to 1968 It will be placed 1.5m km from Earth, at Lagrange Point 2, an area of gravitational balance that keeps it in a Sun-Earth line The telescope will be shaded from sunlight by a shield, enabling it to stay cold, increasing its sensitivity to infrared radiation Three principal instruments will gather images of the Universe in the infrared region of the spectrum These will yield new information about how stars and galaxies first formed a few hundred million years after the Big Bang mirror nears completion 08 Feb stars in telescope's sights 12 Jan camera delights astronomers 10 Nov 03 | Science/Nature names Brazil's first saint UK police face no action on shooting Virginia Tech students graduating
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6636467.stm UN warns on impacts of biofuels 9 May 2007, 08:16 GMT 09:16 warns on impacts of biofuels Plantations for biofuels may threaten forests and wildlife A UN report warns that a hasty switch to biofuels could have major impacts on livelihoods and the environment. Produced by a cross-agency body, UN Energy, the report says that biofuels can bring real benefits. But there can be serious consequences if forests are razed for plantations, if food prices rise and if communities are excluded from ownership, it says. And it concludes that biofuels are more effective when used for heat and power rather than in transport. "Current research concludes that using biomass for combined heat and power (CHP), rather than for transport fuels or other uses, is the best option for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the next decade - and also one of the cheapest," it says. The European Union and the US have recently set major targets for the expansion of biofuels in road vehicles, for which ethanol and biodiesel are seen as the only currently viable alternative to petroleum fuels. The UN report, Sustainable Bioenergy: A Framework for Decision Makers, suggests that biofuels can be a force for good if they are planned well, but can bring adverse consequences if not. "The development of new bioenergy industries could provide clean energy services to millions of people who currently lack them," it concludes, "while generating income and creating jobs in poorer areas of the world." Intensive farming of energy crops demands water and resources But the prices of food, land and agricultural commodities could be driven up, it warns, with major impacts in poorer countries where people spend a much greater share of their incomes on food than in developed nations. On the environmental side, it notes that demand for biofuels has accelerated the clearing of primary forest for palm plantations, particularly in southeast Asia. This destruction of ecosystems which remove carbon from the atmosphere can lead to a net increase in emissions. The report warns too of the impacts on nature: "Use of large-scale mono-cropping could lead to significant biodiversity loss, soil erosion and nutrient leaching." This has been avoided, the report says, in the Brazilian state of Sao Paulo where sugar cane farmers are obliged to leave a percentage of their land as natural reserves. Water is also a concern. The expanding world population and the on-going switch towards consumption of meat and dairy produce as incomes rise are already putting pressure on freshwater supplies, which increased growing of biofuel crops could exacerbate. In conclusion, UN Energy suggests policymakers should take a holistic look before embarking on drives to boost biofuel use. "Only through a convergence of biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions and water-use policies can bioenergy find its proper environmental context and agricultural scale," the report concludes. cars may not be healthier 18 Apr 07 | Health Denmark seeks biofuel solutions 11 Apr 07 | Europe Castro in new US biofuel attack 04 Apr 07 | Americas EU fuel push 'may damage forests' 02 Apr 07 | UK Biofuel demand makes food expensive 23 Mar 07 | Business 24 Jan Green energy or grim reaper? 22 Sep demand for non-food crops 18 Apr leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6640271.stm Tiny marsupial records DNA first 9 May 2007, 18:00 GMT 19:00 marsupial records DNA first The small creature is normally found in the trees of South America The grey, short-tailed opossum has become the first marsupial to have its DNA read through by scientists. The creature is commonly used in labs as an experimental "model" in which to study the causes of human disease, such as cancer and neurological problems. Knowing its genome will boost those efforts, and give new insight into the different evolutionary paths taken by marsupial and placental mammals. Details of the work appear in the journals Nature and Genome Research. The study is part of a grand scheme to compare the biochemistry of a range of animals with that of , to understand better how the human body is built and maintained, and how all species differ from one another. "The idea is to obtain genome sequence information from organisms that are appropriately spaced relative to us on the tree of life," explained Adam Felsenfeld, from the US National Human Genome Research Institute. "For example, by lining up the sequences it is possible to detect regions of the genome that have not changed, so are conserved and perhaps important; or, alternatively, regions that are changing very rapidly." In the wild, the opossum is found in the trees of South America. It was chosen as a subject to have its full complement of DNA (its genome) decoded because of its current importance to science. Its small size, ease of breeding and large litters have made the creature the predominant marsupial for laboratory study worldwide. The double-stranded DNA molecule is held together by four chemical components scientists refer to as bases Adenine (A) bonds with thymine (T); cytosine(C) bonds with guanine (G) Groupings of these "letters" form the "code of life"; there are about 3.4 billion base-pairs in the opossum genome Written in this DNA sequence are about 18-20,000 genes Genes are starting templates used by cells to make proteins; the sophisticated molecules that build and maintain the body Marsupial mammals (kangaroos, wallabies, etc) are closely related to the placental mammals (humans, mice, etc) - but not that close. They last shared a common ancestor about 180 million years ago and have arrived at very different reproductive solutions - with marsupials rearing their young externally, sometimes in a pouch. "This marsupial is a bit different in that the young are not kept in a pouch; they just dangle off the teats," observed Jenny Graves from the Australian National University. This open arrangement makes the study of early developmental processes much simpler, and should give scientists clues as to how they perform a number of very clever biological tricks. For example, when newborns crawl to their mother's teats, they are little more than a mouth and gut. They have no functioning immune system but are still able to survive in an open, "dirty" environment. Looking at the genes should help scientists work out how this is possible. Research has also shown that newborns can regrow their spinal cords, even if they are completely severed. "The genome hasn't told us exactly how they do that but the genome provides us with a blueprint for further study and for being able to apply some of that knowledge to humans," commented Chris Gunter, a senior biology editor at Nature. The decoding work, led by the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard in Cambridge, Massachusetts, reveals the opossum to have between 18,000 and 20,000 protein-coding genes. The number is a little short of what is seen in a placental mammal like a human - but broadly similar. The big difference, scientists say, is in the DNA sequences that are responsible for regulation of the genes - controlling when and where in cell processes they become active. "Twenty percent of all the regulatory instructions in the human genome were invented after we parted ways with the marsupial," explained Eric Lander, the director of the Broad Institute. "Evolution is tinkering much more with the controls than with the genes themselves." Many of these innovative DNA instructions were derived from so-called "jumping genes", or transposons - small pieces of genetic code that hop around the genome and were previously thought to have no function. "Transposons have a restless lifestyle, often shuttling themselves from one chromosome to another," said Broad researcher Tarjei Mikkelsen. "It is now clear that in their travels, they are disseminating crucial genetic innovations around the genome." decode macaque genome 13 Apr study sheds light on dog size 05 Apr show big DNA differences 23 Nov creature's genome insight 10 Nov genome 'chapter' published 18 May code' of chimps laid bare 31 Aug 05 | Science/Nature leap for British forces Asian markets push illegal ivory Aboriginal remains fight resolved
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. the standard MIME type of the object. the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. the kilobits per second rate of media. the number of frames per second for the media object. the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). number of audio channels in the media object. the number of seconds the media object plays. the height of the media object. the width of the media object. the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. the width of the thumbnail. the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. the URI that identifies the role scheme. this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm Our Own Correspondent Saturday, 12 May 2007, 10:02 GMT 11:02 UK Birds 'starve' at S Korea wetland Thousands of migrating birds face hardship because of a South Korean land project, conservationists say. Bandwidth leap for British forces UK forces in Afghanistan and Iraq start using their upgraded Skynet satellite communications system. Asian markets push illegal ivory Cross-continental crime syndicates run from East Asia are fuelling a rise in the illegal ivory trade. Aboriginal remains fight resolved Red squirrel dies from deadly pox Nasa unveils Hubble's successor Galileo firms miss key deadline Tunnel open again at Silbury hill ALSO IN THE NEWS A wind tunnel and a dash of honey reveal the secrets of bat flight Why protecting whales is about more than preventing hunting How do astronauts deal with 'natural functions' in space? Technology to make hydro-dams more climate friendly VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Galileo struggles to compete Brain controls video game Bats' secret to flying China climate change warning More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet Tiny marsupial records DNA first Scientists create 'plastic' blood King Herod's tomb 'found' Portrait of a perfect murder Star dies in monstrous explosion Sounds bring Google Earth to life Scientists compile 'book of life' UN warns on impacts of biofuels Grants cut for energy scheme Coconut oil powers island's cars Environmental opinion and debate Climate action 'needs devolution' Science key to green future Aboriginal remains fight resolved Tiny marsupial records DNA first Scientists compile 'book of life' How guesswork helps robots navigate around the office The Ukrainian villagers who live confidently on radioactive produce FROM OTHER BBC SITES Experience Earth as never before with unprecedented footage ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6644305.stm Flexible secrets of how bats fly 11 May 2007, 08:53 GMT 09:53 secrets of how bats fly Environment correspondent, BBC News website Using a wind tunnel, a computerised imaging system and the odd dash of honey, scientists have analysed the highly flexible flap of bats' wings. Bats evolved flight independently from birds and their wings work differently. The most striking aspect is that on the upstroke, the wings turn upside down to generate more lift. Writing in the journal Science, the researchers suggest their findings could help in the development of machines which fly by flapping. Bats are agile, plotting and executing complex manoeuvres through cluttered environments "This is completely different from birds," said study leader Anders Hedenstrom from Lund University in Sweden. "There is nothing else that is similar to a bat in flight because their wings are so flexible," he told the BBC News website. The research took place in a wind tunnel at Lund University, where Professor Hedenstrom has spent more than a decade studying the flight patterns of birds. , a small species of bat that feeds on nectar. Placed on a net in the wind tunnel near to feeding tubes bearing honey water, the bats would decide from time to time to fly across for a slurp or two of food. As they flew, their wings displaced tiny water droplets, about one micron (one thousandth of a millimetre) in diameter, which had been injected into the apparatus. "Then we create a thin light sheet with a pulsed laser," explained Professor Hedenstrom, "which illuminates areas of the tunnel, and we capture pairs of images." The computer system scans the images for clusters of water droplets which it can then track from one snapshot to the next. "And then repeating that again and again, we can get velocity information on droplets across the whole image," Professor Hedenstrom added. Previous studies relied on filming bats in flight, but this team believes its method showed the mammals' flying secrets with much greater precision and detail. The patterns of the wing beats are complex, and change as the bats fly faster or slower. But the key part is the wing inversion. With the wing moving upwards, you might expect power to drop off and the wing to push the animals downwards. By turning the wing over, and then moving it backwards during the upstroke, power is maintained. Birds have evolved a completely different way round the problem, separating and turning their feathers so they can pass through air more freely as the wing moves upwards. Could this be useful to engineers trying to develop new modes of mechanical flight? Perhaps so, according to Geoffrey Spedding, an aerospace engineer from the University of Southern California (USC), who collaborated on the research. "Bats are agile hunters, capable of plotting and executing complex manoeuvres through cluttered environments," he said. "These are the traits we'd like our unmanned air vehicles to have because there are so many complex rural and urban environments in which we could use them." AND AUDIO NEWS Detection team to track rare bats 02 May 07 | Norfolk Flying dinos had bi-plane design 22 Jan flight of 'laid-back' bat 28 Dec 06 | England Earliest flying mammal discovered 13 Dec wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6655043.stm Coal 'can be clean and reliable' 15 May 2007, 00:39 GMT 01:39 'can be clean and reliable' There has been a renewed interest in mining New technology means coal can be both a clean and secure source of energy, according to a UK think-tank report. High in carbon emissions - a key factor causing climate change - coal has typically been seen as a dirty fuel. But the environmental damage can be reduced, says the report, and unlike some renewable energy it can also be stored and provided on demand. The report by the Centre for Policies Studies comes in advance of the UK energy white paper, expected in May. "New clean technologies are being developed around the world which can reduce the environmental impact of coal-fired generation," the report said. These new techniques are "proven", the study added. "Powerfuel's new development at Hatfield in Yorkshire is an example of how a new clean coal plant can be developed in practice," it said. The site, near Doncaster, was reopened in 2006, as part of plans to revamp the colliery and develop a clean coal power station. Developing clean coal in the UK would not only be good for the domestic market. It would also be an effective way of setting an example for developing economies, including China and India, so they could "take advantage of their own coal reserves" in an environmentally acceptable way. But in order to make best use of coal, there needs to be clear political support to encourage investors and systematic planning rules for coal sites, said the think-tank. The government should also provide the same degree of subsidy as it does for renewable energy, it added. It argued that ultimately, if coal were developed using new technologies, it could mean a more reliable energy source and cheaper electricity for the consumer. "Such a combination ought to be attractive to all policy-makers," the report said. review 'was misleading' Nuclear power gets go-ahead Review urges barrage study MPs press over nuclear subsidies Business welcomes N-power plans Cumbria welcomes nuclear plans Nuclear clean-up 'to cost £70bn' How would you like the UK's electricity to be generated by 2020? Q&A: UK energy review Designing the next reactor Growing demand for fuel crops Labour and the nuclear lobby New hope for UK coal mines Adding up nuclear equation Bringing meters out of the closet French eager to build nuclear Taking heat out of energy costs Should the Govt rethink strategy? RELATED IN DEPTH REPORT Centre for Policy Studies wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6653691.stm Irish badger culling 'is futile' 14 May 2007, 10:34 GMT 11:34 badger culling 'is futile' The UK has been considering a large-scale cull of badgers A new report claims the "virtual extermination" of badgers in the Republic of Ireland has failed to stop the spread of bovine TB. Although so many badgers have been killed that they are extinct in many areas, the level of TB in cattle is twice as high as in Britain, it says. The study comes from Badgerwatch Ireland and the UK Badger Trust. Britain's National Farmers' Union accused the groups of being highly selective in their choice of figures. It argued that controlled, selective culling of wildlife around infected farms in the Republic had brought considerable success in recent years in reducing the incidence of bovine tuberculosis. Ireland has always had a much worse problem with TB than we have The farming industry and many vets are adamant that badgers help spread the disease among cattle. They would like to see a targeted cull aimed at infected populations of badgers in the UK, in "hotspot" areas including parts of South West England and in Wales. The UK's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) says the government will assess the science, including data from the Irish experience, before deciding on the most appropriate solution to the problem in England. It is due to receive recommendations from the Independent Science Group on Cattle TB this summer. The devolved powers in Wales and Scotland are assessing the issues in tandem with England. Badgerwatch Ireland and the UK Badger Trust have reviewed documents relating to the systematic destruction of badgers in the so-called Four Areas Project which operated in Cork, Monaghan, Donegal and Kilkenny from 1997 to 2002. The project compared proactive and reactive culling of badgers in outbreak areas to try to determine which approach would have the greatest impact on the incidence of TB in cattle. A review of the project for Defra found it to be the "best evidence yet of the fact of badgers contributing to bovine TB in cattle". Clearly, Ireland has got it wrong Trevor Lawson, UK Badger Trust But the two conservation groups concentrate on what they regard as flaws in the project - and in the Irish Republic's current control methods. Their report says with 6,000 badger snares in operation every night in the Republic, the incidence of TB in cattle remains a major problem. It claims the density of badgers in Ireland is now only 10% of that in equivalent habitats in South West England; and yet, in 2006, Ireland slaughtered 9% more cattle with bovine TB than Great Britain - even though the Irish national herd is only 56% the size of Britain's. "If you've eradicated virtually all your badgers and you've still got twice the level of bovine TB in your national herd than you have in Britain, where we're not slaughtering our badgers, then clearly Ireland has got it wrong," Trevor Lawson told the BBC News website. The groups believe their assessment supports the view that bovine TB in Ireland is largely spread by the movement of cattle. They say the disease rocketed in Ireland when pre-movement TB testing for cattle was abandoned in 1996. It quickly reached the highest level ever recorded in 1999, with more than 45,000 positive tests. Badger culling continued throughout that period, their report states. The UK NFU accused the badger groups of twisting the available data to support their case. The Union's Anthony Gibson argued that the Republic's policy of snaring badgers within a 2km radius of infected farms - where wildlife transmission was the suspected cause of the outbreak - had been an outstanding success. 30 areas of the country, each 100 square km 10 culled proactively, 10 reactively, 10 not culled Badgers culled through being caught in cage and then shot Incidence of bovine TB measured on farms inside and outside study areas Reactive culling suspended in 2003 after significant rise in infection Trial cost £7m per year Badger cull 'low priority' Policy impacts on cattle TB He said it had resulted in a reduction in the number of cattle that needed to be slaughtered from 42,000 in 2002 to 24,000 now - a reduction of 46%. "That's an impressive result," he told BBC News. "Ireland has always had a much worse problem with TB than we have; the fact is that they're managing to reduce their incidence of TB quite significantly, whereas over here, in the first two months of this year, the number of cases went up by 10%." He said government advisors could learn valuable lessons from the Irish experience. In Britain, the government-backed Randomised Badger Culling Trial (also known as the Krebs Trial), which ended in 2003, showed that culling could make the TB problem worse. Reactive culling raised TB incidence by 25%. A proactive regime lowered incidence inside the target zone, but resulted in an increase in surrounding areas. When contacted by the BBC, Ireland's agriculture ministry said it was considering its response to the conservationists' report. cull 'low priority' for TB 02 Oct says 'no' to badger cull 12 Jul TB vaccine trial launched 22 Jun 06 | UK Farmers' support for badger cull 10 Mar 06 | Devon Policy may have spread cattle TB 14 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Cattle movement key to TB spread 26 May 05 | Science/Nature wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6651295.stm US seeks G8 climate text changes 14 May 2007, 07:46 GMT 08:46 seeks G8 climate text changes Environment correspondent, BBC News website The US appears to be on a different road from other G8 members The US is trying to block sections of a draft agreement on climate change prepared for next month's G8 summit, according to documents seen by the BBC. Washington objects to the draft's targets to keep the global temperature rise below 2C this century and halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The draft, prepared by the German G8 presidency, said action was imperative. With UN talks struggling to extend the current Kyoto targets, the G8 summit is seen as a vital way to regain momentum. Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel has made climate a priority for the organisation, with backing from other leaders including Tony Blair. But the US's proposed revisions, obtained by BBC News, mark a fundamentally different stance. A clause saying "climate change is speeding up and will seriously damage our common natural environment and severely weaken (the) global economy... resolute action is urgently needed in order to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions" is struck out. They are trying to lay landmines under a post-Kyoto agreement after they leave office So are a statement that "we are deeply concerned about the latest findings confirmed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)", and a commitment to send a "clear message" on international efforts to combat global warming at the next round of UN climate talks in December. US negotiators also want to remove from the draft firm targets for improving energy efficiency in buildings and transport, and a call for the establishment of a global carbon market. Many observers believe that such a market can only be effective if there are binding caps on emissions. A spokeswoman for the White House Council on Environmental Quality said the administration did not talk about ongoing private discussions, but commented: "There is consensus that the Earth is warming, and we are working with our G8 partners as well as developing nations to identify the promising new technologies that will help the whole world address the long term challenges of climate change. "The US continues to lead the global effort on climate change." The European Union, which includes half of the G8 members, has already adopted commitments to aim for a global temperature rise of less than 2C, and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% from 1990 levels by 2020. Japan has recently endorsed tough action on emissions Japanese news organisations recently reported that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government was also planning to push fellow G8 members for tough targets. President Bush's administration has long championed voluntary agreements as an alternative to global pacts such as the Kyoto Protocol which seek binding emissions caps. The US is a key player in the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate, a six-nation pact which promises greenhouse gas mitigation without targets. "I think the real objective (of the US negotiators) is not just to keep the lid on and have nothing happen while President Bush is in office, but they are trying to lay landmines under a post-Kyoto agreement after they leave office," commented Philip Clapp, president of the Washington-based National Environmental Trust, who has seen the US's proposed amendments. "It lies in the hands of Prime Minister Blair and Chancellor Merkel, whether it's all sweetness and light or whether they are prepared to stand up and say 'I'm sorry, but the rest of the world is moving in a different direction from you'," he said. Preparations for the 2005 G8 summit in the Scottish resort of Gleneagles also began with a climate change draft which grew weaker as discussions continued. Leaders decided then to agree a weak document rather than leave with no agreement at all. out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC G8 climate deal plays on language 08 Jul 05 | Science/Nature wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/humber/6654201.stm | Humber | Go-ahead given for GM trial site 14 May 2007, 12:21 GMT 13:21 given for GM trial site The firm said planting would not start until at least next year Ministers have approved a site in East Yorkshire for GM potato trials. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs agreed to allow biotech company BASF Plant Science to test the plants at a farm in Hedon. The company will have the licence to carry out the experiments until 2011, it was announced on Monday. A BASF spokeswoman said the firm would not start the tests until at least next year after having discussions with neighbouring farmers. Environmental campaigners criticised the government's decision to go ahead with the plans. BASF was also given permission in December for similar tests in Cambridgeshire and Derbyshire. However, it later shelved its Derbyshire plans over fears for the farmer's safety following anti-GM protests. Planting of GM potatoes has already started in Cambridgeshire. The BASF spokeswoman said the harvested potatoes would not be used for food or animal feed. She said: "We have already done trials in the Netherlands and Sweden to see if the potato is resistant to potato blight. We are just testing it in the UK to see if the resistance works in the UK climate." She added that independent experts at the Advisory Committee of Releases to the Environment evaluated the company's application for the Hedon site. Friends of the Earth's GM campaigner, Clare Oxborrow, said: "The government has given the go-ahead to this GM potato trial despite widespread local opposition and fears about the impact on neighbouring borage farmers. "We are pleased that the trial is not going ahead this year because concerns about the impact on local farmers have not been resolved. "But the best solution would be to abandon the trial completely." travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Humber Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for help after bank raid Brown rival needs more supporters Go-ahead given for GM trial site slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6655043.stm Coal 'can be clean and reliable' 15 May 2007, 00:39 GMT 01:39 'can be clean and reliable' There has been a renewed interest in mining New technology means coal can be both a clean and secure source of energy, according to a UK think-tank report. High in carbon emissions - a key factor causing climate change - coal has typically been seen as a dirty fuel. But the environmental damage can be reduced, says the report, and unlike some renewable energy it can also be stored and provided on demand. The report by the Centre for Policies Studies comes in advance of the UK energy white paper, expected in May. "New clean technologies are being developed around the world which can reduce the environmental impact of coal-fired generation," the report said. These new techniques are "proven", the study added. "Powerfuel's new development at Hatfield in Yorkshire is an example of how a new clean coal plant can be developed in practice," it said. The site, near Doncaster, was reopened in 2006, as part of plans to revamp the colliery and develop a clean coal power station. Developing clean coal in the UK would not only be good for the domestic market. It would also be an effective way of setting an example for developing economies, including China and India, so they could "take advantage of their own coal reserves" in an environmentally acceptable way. But in order to make best use of coal, there needs to be clear political support to encourage investors and systematic planning rules for coal sites, said the think-tank. The government should also provide the same degree of subsidy as it does for renewable energy, it added. It argued that ultimately, if coal were developed using new technologies, it could mean a more reliable energy source and cheaper electricity for the consumer. "Such a combination ought to be attractive to all policy-makers," the report said. review 'was misleading' Nuclear power gets go-ahead Review urges barrage study MPs press over nuclear subsidies Business welcomes N-power plans Cumbria welcomes nuclear plans Nuclear clean-up 'to cost £70bn' How would you like the UK's electricity to be generated by 2020? Q&A: UK energy review Designing the next reactor Growing demand for fuel crops Labour and the nuclear lobby New hope for UK coal mines Adding up nuclear equation Bringing meters out of the closet French eager to build nuclear Taking heat out of energy costs Should the Govt rethink strategy? RELATED IN DEPTH REPORT Centre for Policy Studies wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6653691.stm Irish badger culling 'is futile' 14 May 2007, 10:34 GMT 11:34 badger culling 'is futile' The UK has been considering a large-scale cull of badgers A new report claims the "virtual extermination" of badgers in the Republic of Ireland has failed to stop the spread of bovine TB. Although so many badgers have been killed that they are extinct in many areas, the level of TB in cattle is twice as high as in Britain, it says. The study comes from Badgerwatch Ireland and the UK Badger Trust. Britain's National Farmers' Union accused the groups of being highly selective in their choice of figures. It argued that controlled, selective culling of wildlife around infected farms in the Republic had brought considerable success in recent years in reducing the incidence of bovine tuberculosis. Ireland has always had a much worse problem with TB than we have The farming industry and many vets are adamant that badgers help spread the disease among cattle. They would like to see a targeted cull aimed at infected populations of badgers in the UK, in "hotspot" areas including parts of South West England and in Wales. The UK's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) says the government will assess the science, including data from the Irish experience, before deciding on the most appropriate solution to the problem in England. It is due to receive recommendations from the Independent Science Group on Cattle TB this summer. The devolved powers in Wales and Scotland are assessing the issues in tandem with England. Badgerwatch Ireland and the UK Badger Trust have reviewed documents relating to the systematic destruction of badgers in the so-called Four Areas Project which operated in Cork, Monaghan, Donegal and Kilkenny from 1997 to 2002. The project compared proactive and reactive culling of badgers in outbreak areas to try to determine which approach would have the greatest impact on the incidence of TB in cattle. A review of the project for Defra found it to be the "best evidence yet of the fact of badgers contributing to bovine TB in cattle". Clearly, Ireland has got it wrong Trevor Lawson, UK Badger Trust But the two conservation groups concentrate on what they regard as flaws in the project - and in the Irish Republic's current control methods. Their report says with 6,000 badger snares in operation every night in the Republic, the incidence of TB in cattle remains a major problem. It claims the density of badgers in Ireland is now only 10% of that in equivalent habitats in South West England; and yet, in 2006, Ireland slaughtered 9% more cattle with bovine TB than Great Britain - even though the Irish national herd is only 56% the size of Britain's. "If you've eradicated virtually all your badgers and you've still got twice the level of bovine TB in your national herd than you have in Britain, where we're not slaughtering our badgers, then clearly Ireland has got it wrong," Trevor Lawson told the BBC News website. The groups believe their assessment supports the view that bovine TB in Ireland is largely spread by the movement of cattle. They say the disease rocketed in Ireland when pre-movement TB testing for cattle was abandoned in 1996. It quickly reached the highest level ever recorded in 1999, with more than 45,000 positive tests. Badger culling continued throughout that period, their report states. The UK NFU accused the badger groups of twisting the available data to support their case. The Union's Anthony Gibson argued that the Republic's policy of snaring badgers within a 2km radius of infected farms - where wildlife transmission was the suspected cause of the outbreak - had been an outstanding success. 30 areas of the country, each 100 square km 10 culled proactively, 10 reactively, 10 not culled Badgers culled through being caught in cage and then shot Incidence of bovine TB measured on farms inside and outside study areas Reactive culling suspended in 2003 after significant rise in infection Trial cost £7m per year Badger cull 'low priority' Policy impacts on cattle TB He said it had resulted in a reduction in the number of cattle that needed to be slaughtered from 42,000 in 2002 to 24,000 now - a reduction of 46%. "That's an impressive result," he told BBC News. "Ireland has always had a much worse problem with TB than we have; the fact is that they're managing to reduce their incidence of TB quite significantly, whereas over here, in the first two months of this year, the number of cases went up by 10%." He said government advisors could learn valuable lessons from the Irish experience. In Britain, the government-backed Randomised Badger Culling Trial (also known as the Krebs Trial), which ended in 2003, showed that culling could make the TB problem worse. Reactive culling raised TB incidence by 25%. A proactive regime lowered incidence inside the target zone, but resulted in an increase in surrounding areas. When contacted by the BBC, Ireland's agriculture ministry said it was considering its response to the conservationists' report. cull 'low priority' for TB 02 Oct says 'no' to badger cull 12 Jul TB vaccine trial launched 22 Jun 06 | UK Farmers' support for badger cull 10 Mar 06 | Devon Policy may have spread cattle TB 14 Dec 05 | Science/Nature Cattle movement key to TB spread 26 May 05 | Science/Nature wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6654301.stm Call to tax 'wasteful' plasma TVs 15 May 2007, 12:07 GMT 13:07 to tax 'wasteful' plasma TVs Science reporter, BBC News Plasma screens are getting bigger in size and energy consumption Governments should tax plasma screen televisions because of the large amount of energy they consume, according to a leading expert on climate change. Professor Paul Ekins, who studies the economics of climate change, said taxing plasma screens would reflect their "greater climate change burden". This would encourage development and take-up of more energy efficient diode screens, Professor Ekins said. He said government could label energy hungry appliances as a first step. Plasma televisions, which are 50% bigger than their cathode-ray tube equivalents, consume about four times more energy, according to the government-funded Energy Saving Trust. The first thing for government to do is say these kinds of energy-intensive appliances are very climate-unfriendly Prof Paul Ekins, University of Westminster A cathode-ray tube TV costs about £25 per year to run and accounts for 100kg of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, whereas a plasma TV costs about £100 per year and accounts for 400kg of CO2. But some researchers say exact comparisons are difficult because of the size difference between plasmas and other screen types: cathode-ray tube and Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). "At the very least you might think that government would provide some differential incentives to accelerate the development of more energy efficient diode screens and encourage their take-up," said Professor Ekins, co-director of the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC). "Once plasma screens are bought, they are likely to be there for five years at a minimum, perhaps 10 years, perhaps longer." Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) screens do not require a backlight and thus draw less power. But observers say the technology needs to overcome several technological hurdles, such as the limited lifetimes of some of the materials used in them. Professor Ekins was speaking at a news conference in London held to discuss issues around the government's forthcoming Energy White Paper, including how to promote energy efficiency while reducing demand. The White Paper is expected to be released next month. He also singled out patio heaters as especially energy-intensive. The economist, who is also professor of sustainable development at the University of Westminster, said he would personally like to see taxation on energy-intensive appliances like these and added: "The first thing for government to do is say these kinds of energy-intensive appliances are very climate-unfriendly. "They ought to be labelled as such and then there needs to be a detailed policy analysis, which in my experience has not been done, to determine what is the best way to deter their take-up and to develop more climate-friendly substitutes." He added: "Unless we have policy mechanisms of that kind we will not reduce energy demand sufficiently to achieve the kinds of reductions in carbon emissions that currently are the subject of the Climate Change Bill and are going to be signed into statute if that bill goes through." But Robert Gross, head of technology and policy assessment at UKERC, said debates on energy efficiency could become too pre-occupied by prices and incentives. "When you are looking at consumer appliances, buildings and vehicles and you are looking at people not responding very well to price-based incentives - for a variety of reasons - there's an absolutely fundamental role for straightforward legislation to improve the efficiency of these devices," he told journalists. A survey of the five most populous European nations, carried out by the Energy Saving Trust, found that Britons were the worst energy wasters in Europe, with bad habits which could cost £11bn by 2010. hooked on 'essential' gadgets 03 Jan flat-screen TVs eat more energy? 07 Dec 06 | Magazine UK 'tops energy wasters league' 23 Oct 06 | UK Saving energy on the home front 23 Oct Energy Research Centre wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6656447.stm | UK 'failing on many key habitats' 15 May 2007, 04:48 GMT 05:48 'failing on many key habitats' The Cairngorms have been given priority status as a wildlife habitat The UK is failing to protect many of its most vulnerable habitats and species, a government advisory group has warned. The Joint Nature Conservation Committee said 90% of key habitats and 50% of species at risk were affected. The group is carrying out an audit of habitats and species identified by the EU as vulnerable, rare or endangered. Conservation groups said the research was "alarming". The government said it would comment when the audit was over. Under the EU's habitats directive, 500 sites in the UK have been identified as important for rare, endangered or vulnerable plants or wildlife. The idea behind earmarking the sites, known as the Natura 2000 network, had been to ensure they were protected from the start of the millennium. But there are now 170 in the UK considered so vulnerable they have been given priority status. They include the coastal lagoons of the Fleet in Dorset, the north Norfolk coast and the Caledonian forests of the Cairngorms. Conservation groups say the initial findings are "terrible" show the government is failing to protect vulnerable sites. The government said it would comment on the findings once the consultation process is over later this year. 'behind target' on plants 25 Apr plants fighting for space 08 May 05 | Science/Nature UK's farmland birds still declining 11 Aug 03 | Science/Nature Joint Nature Conservation Committee evidence' for Algarve arrest Brown rival needs more supporters Three held over 7/7 attacks freed slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6642931.stm Beyond the harpoon - whale saving begins at home 11 May 2007, 02:51 GMT 03:51 the harpoon - whale saving begins at home Hunting is not the only threat to whales, says Michael Jasny. And some of the countries which protest loudest against hunting are doing the least to safeguard whales from other dangers. This month, the International Whaling Commission (IWC) meets once again to decide the future of commercial whaling and the fate of thousands of whales. But while the world's attention is focused on the drama in Anchorage, it is worth remembering that harpoons are not the only human threats to these magnificent species. The loss of sand eels to global warming may already be driving North Sea harbour porpoises to starvation. Beluga whales in Canada's St Lawrence estuary have been called "living waste dumps" for the dozens of biotoxins that have accumulated in their tissues. The endangered North Atlantic right whale subsists off the northeast coast of the US in what one Cornell University biologist has termed an "urban fog." Many countries, like Britain, that oppose commercial whaling have also promoted activities that harm marine mammals Send us your comments Unfortunately, many countries, like Britain, that have rightly opposed the recrudescence of commercial whaling have also promoted activities that harm marine mammals in ways that are less visible but perhaps equally profound. Toxic pollution, ocean noise, overfishing, climate change - these are just some of the major threats facing marine mammals today, degrading their habitat, reducing their fitness, and making their survival less sure. Where environmental threats are concerned, the usual excuse for inaction is scientific uncertainty. But waiting for definitive research can be a prescription for disaster - especially for species as resistant to study as whales. Climate threat to porpoises Whales may be iconic and ecologically significant, yet we know remarkably little about them. Because they spend much of their lives underwater, they are hard to observe; because they live so long, they are difficult to track over lengths of time relevant to their survival. To tell that a whale or dolphin population is in serious decline can take decades, millions of dollars, and the better parts of several scientific careers. That's true even of some of the world's best-studied species. For years, researchers at Aberdeen University in Scotland have tracked a small resident population of bottlenose dolphins in Moray Firth, well enough to give many of the animals names; and yet, according to observers, even a precipitous decline in the population - a loss of 5% annually - could take more than a decade to detect. Imperilled on the sea It is difficult enough estimating the number of marine mammals lost each year to whaling ships and fishing nets. Comprehending the full impact of environmental stressors like climate change, toxic pollution, and ocean noise represents another order of difficulty. Countries must put some areas off limits not only to fishing but also to industrial, commercial, and military activities Take the case of the North Atlantic right whale, a species that has not recovered since the end of commercial whaling and remains deeply imperilled. In the North Atlantic, right whales successfully calve only about half as often as their cousins in the Southern Ocean. Does noise from shipping traffic and development interfere with their ability to communicate and breed? Do pollutants along the industrialised northeast coast compromise their reproduction? In a few instances, we can conclusively hang a population's decline or its failure to recover on a single factor. More typically, we have only a list of culprits. But lack of scientific certainty does not justify inaction when the answers are so hard to come by and the stakes for species are so high. All of this means that nations must work proactively to protect marine mammals and improve coastal health. To begin with, managers must begin to account for environmental stress in assessing the conservation status of whales and other cetaceans. Population assessments are the building blocks of marine mammal policy, and their scope must be as broad as the threats that these species are facing. Ships can harm whales accidentally as well as through harpoons Countries must improve their networks of marine protected areas, expanding them to include key habitat for marine mammals, and putting some areas off limits not only to fishing but also to industrial, commercial, and military activities that can undermine the health of populations. And we must all take aggressive measures to combat climate change, control pollution, and reduce our environmental footprint. Understanding that we truly are all linked, and that our choices will determine the lives of other species as well as ourselves, is a point that is no less urgent for being commonplace. So by all means, let's fight the efforts of Japan, Norway, and other states to bring back the depredations of commercial whaling. But remember that saving whales, dolphins, and porpoises - not to mention other ocean life - will also require taking strong action at home. Michael Jasny is senior policy analyst for the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), a major environmental organisation based in the US The Green Room is a series of opinion articles on environmental issues running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Tackling climate change effectively means giving power to local communities. Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans Time to tax the carbon dodgers End of oil heralds climate pain Climate food threat to porpoises 10 Jan whale decline 'a mystery' 30 Apr wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6651295.stm US seeks G8 climate text changes 14 May 2007, 07:46 GMT 08:46 seeks G8 climate text changes Environment correspondent, BBC News website The US appears to be on a different road from other G8 members The US is trying to block sections of a draft agreement on climate change prepared for next month's G8 summit, according to documents seen by the BBC. Washington objects to the draft's targets to keep the global temperature rise below 2C this century and halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. The draft, prepared by the German G8 presidency, said action was imperative. With UN talks struggling to extend the current Kyoto targets, the G8 summit is seen as a vital way to regain momentum. Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel has made climate a priority for the organisation, with backing from other leaders including Tony Blair. But the US's proposed revisions, obtained by BBC News, mark a fundamentally different stance. A clause saying "climate change is speeding up and will seriously damage our common natural environment and severely weaken (the) global economy... resolute action is urgently needed in order to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions" is struck out. They are trying to lay landmines under a post-Kyoto agreement after they leave office So are a statement that "we are deeply concerned about the latest findings confirmed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)", and a commitment to send a "clear message" on international efforts to combat global warming at the next round of UN climate talks in December. US negotiators also want to remove from the draft firm targets for improving energy efficiency in buildings and transport, and a call for the establishment of a global carbon market. Many observers believe that such a market can only be effective if there are binding caps on emissions. A spokeswoman for the White House Council on Environmental Quality said the administration did not talk about ongoing private discussions, but commented: "There is consensus that the Earth is warming, and we are working with our G8 partners as well as developing nations to identify the promising new technologies that will help the whole world address the long term challenges of climate change. "The US continues to lead the global effort on climate change." The European Union, which includes half of the G8 members, has already adopted commitments to aim for a global temperature rise of less than 2C, and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% from 1990 levels by 2020. Japan has recently endorsed tough action on emissions Japanese news organisations recently reported that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's government was also planning to push fellow G8 members for tough targets. President Bush's administration has long championed voluntary agreements as an alternative to global pacts such as the Kyoto Protocol which seek binding emissions caps. The US is a key player in the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate, a six-nation pact which promises greenhouse gas mitigation without targets. "I think the real objective (of the US negotiators) is not just to keep the lid on and have nothing happen while President Bush is in office, but they are trying to lay landmines under a post-Kyoto agreement after they leave office," commented Philip Clapp, president of the Washington-based National Environmental Trust, who has seen the US's proposed amendments. "It lies in the hands of Prime Minister Blair and Chancellor Merkel, whether it's all sweetness and light or whether they are prepared to stand up and say 'I'm sorry, but the rest of the world is moving in a different direction from you'," he said. Preparations for the 2005 G8 summit in the Scottish resort of Gleneagles also began with a climate change draft which grew weaker as discussions continued. Leaders decided then to agree a weak document rather than leave with no agreement at all. out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC G8 climate deal plays on language 08 Jul 05 | Science/Nature wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6653067.stm | Africa | China launches Nigerian satellite 14 May 2007, 08:31 GMT 09:31 launches Nigerian satellite China is launching rockets for 30 countries China has successfully launched a communications satellite for Nigeria. The official Xinhua news agency says it is the first time that a foreign buyer has purchased both a Chinese satellite and its launching service. The Nigerian Communication Satellite NIGCOMSAT-1 is expected to offer broadcasting, phone and broadband internet services for Africa. China beat 21 other bidders in 2004 for the $311m contract to launch the satellite, Xinhua says. The satellite, lofted by a Long March 3-B rocket, is expected to reach its final position later this year and to remain in operation for 15 years. The launch is being portrayed as part of a drive to enhance rural access to technology and the internet and boost Nigeria's and Africa's knowledge economy. "It gives you bandwidth to enable you to communicate from point A to point B, from rural Africa to urban cities," Dr Bashir Gwandu, a member of the Satellite Launch Committee and a director at the Nigeria Communications Commission told the BBC's Focus on Africa. Nigeria has been experiencing a communications revolution in recent years, says the BBC's Alex Last, and is one of the fastest growing mobile phone markets in Africa and the world. Having a space programme is also symbolic of how Nigeria wants to be seen as a growing player on the world stage. Critics say the majority of the population live in poverty and the internet can be made redundant by the simple fact that electricity is sporadic at best. The government should rather spend all this money on power, job creation and basic public services, they say. This is the latest example of growing economic co-operation between China and Africa. China is buying African raw materials, and building infrastructure such as roads. The launch represented "China's wish to cooperate with developing countries in the peaceful use of outer space and to promote a closer relationship between China and African countries," Xinhua says. China is expanding its space programme, and in 2003 became only the third country to launch a man into space. This is one of 30 foreign satellites China has been commissioned to launch, Xinhua reports. Nigeria already has a weather satellite launched in 2003 with Russian assistance. space challenge to the US 23 Jan 07 | Asia-Pacific China outlines next space goals 17 Oct 05 | Asia-Pacific Nigeria enters space age 27 Sep 03 | Africa warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6655449.stm Climate messages are 'off target' 15 May 2007, 00:02 GMT 01:02 messages are 'off target' The wrong tone can hamper efforts to effect change, Prof Hulme says Alarmist messages about global warming are counter-productive, the head of a leading climate research centre says. Professor Mike Hulme, of the UK's Tyndall Centre, has been conducting research on people's attitudes to media portrayals of a catastrophic future. He says strong messages designed to prompt people to change behaviour only seem to generate apathy. His initial findings will be shown to a meeting run by the British Association for the Advancement of Science. "There has been over-claiming or exaggeration, or at the very least casual use of language by scientists, some of whom are quite prominent," Professor Hulme told BBC News. His concern is that these exaggerations have given the green light to the media to use the language of fear, terror and disaster when covering scientific reports - even when those reports are much more constrained in their description of the course of likely future events. He says extravagated claims simply generate a feeling of helplessness in the public. "My argument is about the dangers of science over-claiming its knowledge about the future and in particular presenting tentative predictions about climate change using words of 'disaster', 'apocalypse' and 'catastrophe'," he said. The study compared the responses of a group of people shown sensational media coverage with those given the more sober information from scientific reports. The initial findings suggest that those shown doom-laden messages tended to believe the problem could come to a head further into the future. This group also felt there was little they could do to affect the planet's future. "Not only is this not a good way of presenting climate change science, but even in trying to effect change, it's self-defeating," Professor Hulme said. Chaotic world of climate truth Caution urged on climate risk He is speaking at the British Association's two-day Science Communication Conference in London. He will pick up themes he raised in a Green Room article on the BBC News website last November. These were subsequently echoed by two leading Royal Meteorological Society figures - Professors Paul Hardaker and Chris Collier - in March this year. They said reports of catastrophe and the "Hollywoodisation" of weather and climate were creating confusion in the public's mind. All three men hold the view that human activity lies behind the recent rise in Earth's global average temperature. AND AUDIO NEWS A leading expert said people should not panic about climate change Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC British Association for the Advancement of Science wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag soap opera grips Paris Get slim on the office treadmill tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6656661.stm | Edinburgh and East | Female chimps can become killers 15 May 2007, 08:30 GMT 09:30 chimps can become killers Female chimps were previously thought to be less aggressive Scientists in Scotland have discovered that female chimpanzees can be just as violent as their male counterparts. The St Andrews University psychologists found examples of female chimps killing the offspring of incoming mothers, previously regarded as a male trait. The Fife team has been studying chimps in the Budongo Forest, Uganda. The researchers said only three previous instances of lethal aggression in wild female chimps had been documented in the past 50 years. The belief was that male and females differed greatly in nature but the psychologists found that if the chimps' resources come under threat the females could become just as aggressive as males. Our research shows that, under the right socio-ecological circumstances, chimp gender stereotypes collapse completely While observing chimps in the Sonso community, the researchers came across three examples of female apes killing the offspring of incoming mothers. One attack was so violent that a baby chimp's head was bitten off. Simon Townsend, who led the study, said: "It's true that males are much more often seen to engage in extreme physical violence than females, and this has led to the notion of violent and demonic males in contrast to quite peaceful females. "However, our research shows that, under the right socio-ecological circumstances, these chimp gender stereotypes collapse completely. "If their resources are under threat, females can become just as violently aggressive as males." Similar behaviour was described by a leading primatologist in the 1970s, but her findings were later disregarded as inconsistent. Mr Townsend said female aggression only occurred under specific circumstances. He added that an increase of immigrant females entering the Sonso community had put pressure on food and mate resources, which had caused the violence. "It is impossible to predict when another instance may occur," Mr Townsend said. "However, we are very interested in keeping a close eye on levels of female aggression in the Sonso community, especially in the instances when new females attempt to immigrate." you count faster than a chimp? 23 Apr 07 | UK Chimpanzees 'hunt using spears' 22 Feb 'are people, too' 10 Oct uncovers 'chimp cross code' 05 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central HIV origin 'found in wild chimps' 25 May 06 | Health Evolution's human and chimp twist 18 May of St Andrews EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Rail bridge to close for a week Airport drinks security checked Man's abuse led to kitten deaths slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6646193.stm | Breast tumour drug target found 12 May 2007, 23:00 GMT 00:00 tumour drug target found The research has identified another potential treatment Scientists have found a potential target for treating up to 40% of breast cancers. A team from Canada's McGill University were able to block the action of an enzyme which fuels the growth of tumours, Nature Genetics reports. They were able to delay cancer in mice with tumours which also respond to the drug Herceptin, but say other breast tumours may respond too. UK experts said a new drug could boost the benefits of existing treatments. The enzyme studied by the Montreal team was PTP1B, which appears to "remove the brakes" on cell division, fuelling tumour growth. Drugs that block PTP1B may be useful in treating the disease About 40% of human breast cancers have been shown to have excessively high levels of the enzyme. The Canadian team studied a strain of mice prone to develop breast tumours because their HER-2 gene is overactive, as is the case for about a quarter of women with the cancer. These are the women who benefit from the drug Herceptin. The researchers found that deleting PTP1B in the mice led to a significant delay in the onset of breast tumours, and prevented the secondary development of tumours in the lungs. Over-expression of PTP1B has already been implicated in the development of diabetes and obesity, where it shuts down insulin receptors, leading a number of drug companies to develop compounds to block its action. The breast cancer researchers went on to give other mice a PTP1B-blocker developed by the company Merck. This was also found to delay the development of breast tumours and prevent lung cancer. The animals were treated for just two weeks, but the beneficial effects were seen for two months. The researchers say that, because the mice studied were HER-2 positive, the study suggests that a combination of Herceptin and a PTP1B-blocker could benefit a significant number of women, although much more research is needed. Professor Michel Tremblay, who led the work, said: "This study is very exciting for cancer patients. "However it won't cure cancer alone. It's another tool to tackle cancers, perhaps particularly for HER-2 positive tumours. "Combined with Herceptin, it may provide a 'two-way kill'." Prof Tremblay said that, as other research had suggested a greater proportion of breast cancers had an over-expression of PTP1B than responded to Herceptin treatment, other women could also benefit. In addition, other cancers including bone marrow tumours had also been shown to have too much PTP1B, indicating potential wider benefits. Ed Yong, of Cancer Research UK, said: "Drugs that block PTP1B may be useful in treating the disease, but they will first need to be carefully tested in human clinical trials. "Blocking PTP1B could boost the effects of existing drugs that work like Herceptin." doubles breast cancer risk 01 Jan 07 | Health Jury out over young breast tests 08 Dec 06 | Health Breast cancer cases have soared 29 Sep 06 | Health to tackle cancer by 2020 Doctor application system ditched Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6657271.stm Hubble spots ring of dark matter 15 May 2007, 17:22 GMT 18:22 spots ring of dark matter The ring of dark matter appears in this composite map Astronomers have found one of the best pieces of evidence for the existence of dark matter, a mysterious quantity that pervades our Universe. They have identified what appears to be a ghostly ring in the sky which is made up of this enigmatic substance. Using the Hubble Space Telescope, the scientists have established that the ring formed long ago after a colossal smash-up between two galaxy clusters. Details of the research are to appear in the Astrophysical Journal. As the name suggests, dark matter does not reflect or emit detectable light, yet it accounts for most of the mass in the Universe. Astronomers have long suspected the existence of this invisible "stuff" as the source of additional gravity that holds together galaxy clusters. The clusters would fly apart if they were reliant only on the gravity from their visible stars. No one knows what dark matter is made of, but it is thought to be a type of elementary particle found throughout the cosmos. Researchers from Johns Hopkins University and the Space Telescope Science Institute - both in Baltimore, US - spotted the ring unexpectedly while they were mapping the distribution of dark matter within the galaxy cluster Cl 0024+17. This cluster lies 5 billion light-years from Earth; its ring of dark matter measures 2.6 million light-years across. Because astronomers cannot see dark matter, they must infer its existence by studying how its gravity bends the light of more distant, background galaxies. This powerful trick, called gravitational lensing, allows astronomers to map the distorted light to deduce the cluster's mass and how dark matter is distributed in the cluster. At first, team members thought the ring was an illusion - or artefact - in the data. But repeated attempts to make the ring disappear met with failure. Finally, the astronomers became convinced that it must be a real feature. Ripples in a pond In August 2006, US astronomers identified the gravitational signature of dark matter in another merging galaxy cluster. But the ring structure in Cl 0024+17 is exceptional. "Although the invisible matter has been found before in other galaxy clusters, it has never been detected to be so largely separated from the hot gas and the galaxies that make up galaxy clusters," said co-author Myungkook James Jee of Johns Hopkins University. "By seeing a dark-matter structure that is not traced by galaxies and hot gas, we can study how it behaves differently from normal matter." Computer simulations of galaxy cluster collisions show that when two clusters smash together, the dark matter falls to the centre of the merged cluster and sloshes back out. As the dark matter seeps outward, it begins to slow down under the pull of gravity and gathers together like a traffic pile-up. Luckily, astronomers had a head on view of this collision because it occurred along the Earth's line of sight. "It's like looking at the pebbles on the bottom of a pond with ripples on the surface. The pebbles' shapes appear to change as the ripples pass over them," Dr Jee explained. "So, too, the background galaxies behind the ring show coherent changes in their shapes due to the presence of the dense ring." Team member Holland Ford, also of Johns Hopkins, said: "By studying this collision, we are seeing how dark matter responds to gravity. He added: "Nature is doing an experiment for us that we can't do in a lab, and it agrees with our theoretical models." makes 3D dark matter map 07 Jan finds 'proof' of dark matter 21 Aug matter comes out of the cold 05 Feb ever cosmos simulation 01 Jun 05 | Science/Nature wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6642931.stm Beyond the harpoon - whale saving begins at home 11 May 2007, 02:51 GMT 03:51 the harpoon - whale saving begins at home Hunting is not the only threat to whales, says Michael Jasny. And some of the countries which protest loudest against hunting are doing the least to safeguard whales from other dangers. This month, the International Whaling Commission (IWC) meets once again to decide the future of commercial whaling and the fate of thousands of whales. But while the world's attention is focused on the drama in Anchorage, it is worth remembering that harpoons are not the only human threats to these magnificent species. The loss of sand eels to global warming may already be driving North Sea harbour porpoises to starvation. Beluga whales in Canada's St Lawrence estuary have been called "living waste dumps" for the dozens of biotoxins that have accumulated in their tissues. The endangered North Atlantic right whale subsists off the northeast coast of the US in what one Cornell University biologist has termed an "urban fog." Many countries, like Britain, that oppose commercial whaling have also promoted activities that harm marine mammals Send us your comments Unfortunately, many countries, like Britain, that have rightly opposed the recrudescence of commercial whaling have also promoted activities that harm marine mammals in ways that are less visible but perhaps equally profound. Toxic pollution, ocean noise, overfishing, climate change - these are just some of the major threats facing marine mammals today, degrading their habitat, reducing their fitness, and making their survival less sure. Where environmental threats are concerned, the usual excuse for inaction is scientific uncertainty. But waiting for definitive research can be a prescription for disaster - especially for species as resistant to study as whales. Climate threat to porpoises Whales may be iconic and ecologically significant, yet we know remarkably little about them. Because they spend much of their lives underwater, they are hard to observe; because they live so long, they are difficult to track over lengths of time relevant to their survival. To tell that a whale or dolphin population is in serious decline can take decades, millions of dollars, and the better parts of several scientific careers. That's true even of some of the world's best-studied species. For years, researchers at Aberdeen University in Scotland have tracked a small resident population of bottlenose dolphins in Moray Firth, well enough to give many of the animals names; and yet, according to observers, even a precipitous decline in the population - a loss of 5% annually - could take more than a decade to detect. Imperilled on the sea It is difficult enough estimating the number of marine mammals lost each year to whaling ships and fishing nets. Comprehending the full impact of environmental stressors like climate change, toxic pollution, and ocean noise represents another order of difficulty. Countries must put some areas off limits not only to fishing but also to industrial, commercial, and military activities Take the case of the North Atlantic right whale, a species that has not recovered since the end of commercial whaling and remains deeply imperilled. In the North Atlantic, right whales successfully calve only about half as often as their cousins in the Southern Ocean. Does noise from shipping traffic and development interfere with their ability to communicate and breed? Do pollutants along the industrialised northeast coast compromise their reproduction? In a few instances, we can conclusively hang a population's decline or its failure to recover on a single factor. More typically, we have only a list of culprits. But lack of scientific certainty does not justify inaction when the answers are so hard to come by and the stakes for species are so high. All of this means that nations must work proactively to protect marine mammals and improve coastal health. To begin with, managers must begin to account for environmental stress in assessing the conservation status of whales and other cetaceans. Population assessments are the building blocks of marine mammal policy, and their scope must be as broad as the threats that these species are facing. Ships can harm whales accidentally as well as through harpoons Countries must improve their networks of marine protected areas, expanding them to include key habitat for marine mammals, and putting some areas off limits not only to fishing but also to industrial, commercial, and military activities that can undermine the health of populations. And we must all take aggressive measures to combat climate change, control pollution, and reduce our environmental footprint. Understanding that we truly are all linked, and that our choices will determine the lives of other species as well as ourselves, is a point that is no less urgent for being commonplace. So by all means, let's fight the efforts of Japan, Norway, and other states to bring back the depredations of commercial whaling. But remember that saving whales, dolphins, and porpoises - not to mention other ocean life - will also require taking strong action at home. Michael Jasny is senior policy analyst for the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), a major environmental organisation based in the US The Green Room is a series of opinion articles on environmental issues running weekly on the BBC News website series of thought-provoking environmental opinion pieces Tackling climate change effectively means giving power to local communities. Young minds, go for it! Monster warning for oceans Time to tax the carbon dodgers End of oil heralds climate pain Climate food threat to porpoises 10 Jan whale decline 'a mystery' 30 Apr wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6656661.stm | Edinburgh and East | Female chimps can become killers 15 May 2007, 08:30 GMT 09:30 chimps can become killers Female chimps were previously thought to be less aggressive Scientists in Scotland have discovered that female chimpanzees can be just as violent as their male counterparts. The St Andrews University psychologists found examples of female chimps killing the offspring of incoming mothers, previously regarded as a male trait. The Fife team has been studying chimps in the Budongo Forest, Uganda. The researchers said only three previous instances of lethal aggression in wild female chimps had been documented in the past 50 years. The belief was that male and females differed greatly in nature but the psychologists found that if the chimps' resources come under threat the females could become just as aggressive as males. Our research shows that, under the right socio-ecological circumstances, chimp gender stereotypes collapse completely While observing chimps in the Sonso community, the researchers came across three examples of female apes killing the offspring of incoming mothers. One attack was so violent that a baby chimp's head was bitten off. Simon Townsend, who led the study, said: "It's true that males are much more often seen to engage in extreme physical violence than females, and this has led to the notion of violent and demonic males in contrast to quite peaceful females. "However, our research shows that, under the right socio-ecological circumstances, these chimp gender stereotypes collapse completely. "If their resources are under threat, females can become just as violently aggressive as males." Similar behaviour was described by a leading primatologist in the 1970s, but her findings were later disregarded as inconsistent. Mr Townsend said female aggression only occurred under specific circumstances. He added that an increase of immigrant females entering the Sonso community had put pressure on food and mate resources, which had caused the violence. "It is impossible to predict when another instance may occur," Mr Townsend said. "However, we are very interested in keeping a close eye on levels of female aggression in the Sonso community, especially in the instances when new females attempt to immigrate." you count faster than a chimp? 23 Apr 07 | UK Chimpanzees 'hunt using spears' 22 Feb 'are people, too' 10 Oct uncovers 'chimp cross code' 05 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central HIV origin 'found in wild chimps' 25 May 06 | Health Evolution's human and chimp twist 18 May of St Andrews EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Rail bridge to close for a week Airport drinks security checked Man's abuse led to kitten deaths slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6653067.stm | Africa | China launches Nigerian satellite 14 May 2007, 08:31 GMT 09:31 launches Nigerian satellite China is launching rockets for 30 countries China has successfully launched a communications satellite for Nigeria. The official Xinhua news agency says it is the first time that a foreign buyer has purchased both a Chinese satellite and its launching service. The Nigerian Communication Satellite NIGCOMSAT-1 is expected to offer broadcasting, phone and broadband internet services for Africa. China beat 21 other bidders in 2004 for the $311m contract to launch the satellite, Xinhua says. The satellite, lofted by a Long March 3-B rocket, is expected to reach its final position later this year and to remain in operation for 15 years. The launch is being portrayed as part of a drive to enhance rural access to technology and the internet and boost Nigeria's and Africa's knowledge economy. "It gives you bandwidth to enable you to communicate from point A to point B, from rural Africa to urban cities," Dr Bashir Gwandu, a member of the Satellite Launch Committee and a director at the Nigeria Communications Commission told the BBC's Focus on Africa. Nigeria has been experiencing a communications revolution in recent years, says the BBC's Alex Last, and is one of the fastest growing mobile phone markets in Africa and the world. Having a space programme is also symbolic of how Nigeria wants to be seen as a growing player on the world stage. Critics say the majority of the population live in poverty and the internet can be made redundant by the simple fact that electricity is sporadic at best. The government should rather spend all this money on power, job creation and basic public services, they say. This is the latest example of growing economic co-operation between China and Africa. China is buying African raw materials, and building infrastructure such as roads. The launch represented "China's wish to cooperate with developing countries in the peaceful use of outer space and to promote a closer relationship between China and African countries," Xinhua says. China is expanding its space programme, and in 2003 became only the third country to launch a man into space. This is one of 30 foreign satellites China has been commissioned to launch, Xinhua reports. Nigeria already has a weather satellite launched in 2003 with Russian assistance. space challenge to the US 23 Jan 07 | Asia-Pacific China outlines next space goals 17 Oct 05 | Asia-Pacific Nigeria enters space age 27 Sep 03 | Africa warned on Somali pullout Cameroon's crash pilot 'warned' Locals seize Nigeria oil facility slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6656447.stm | UK 'failing on many key habitats' 15 May 2007, 04:48 GMT 05:48 'failing on many key habitats' The Cairngorms have been given priority status as a wildlife habitat The UK is failing to protect many of its most vulnerable habitats and species, a government advisory group has warned. The Joint Nature Conservation Committee said 90% of key habitats and 50% of species at risk were affected. The group is carrying out an audit of habitats and species identified by the EU as vulnerable, rare or endangered. Conservation groups said the research was "alarming". The government said it would comment when the audit was over. Under the EU's habitats directive, 500 sites in the UK have been identified as important for rare, endangered or vulnerable plants or wildlife. The idea behind earmarking the sites, known as the Natura 2000 network, had been to ensure they were protected from the start of the millennium. But there are now 170 in the UK considered so vulnerable they have been given priority status. They include the coastal lagoons of the Fleet in Dorset, the north Norfolk coast and the Caledonian forests of the Cairngorms. Conservation groups say the initial findings are "terrible" show the government is failing to protect vulnerable sites. The government said it would comment on the findings once the consultation process is over later this year. 'behind target' on plants 25 Apr plants fighting for space 08 May 05 | Science/Nature UK's farmland birds still declining 11 Aug 03 | Science/Nature Joint Nature Conservation Committee evidence' for Algarve arrest Brown rival needs more supporters Three held over 7/7 attacks freed slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6654301.stm Call to tax 'wasteful' plasma TVs 15 May 2007, 12:07 GMT 13:07 to tax 'wasteful' plasma TVs Science reporter, BBC News Plasma screens are getting bigger in size and energy consumption Governments should tax plasma screen televisions because of the large amount of energy they consume, according to a leading expert on climate change. Professor Paul Ekins, who studies the economics of climate change, said taxing plasma screens would reflect their "greater climate change burden". This would encourage development and take-up of more energy efficient diode screens, Professor Ekins said. He said government could label energy hungry appliances as a first step. Plasma televisions, which are 50% bigger than their cathode-ray tube equivalents, consume about four times more energy, according to the government-funded Energy Saving Trust. The first thing for government to do is say these kinds of energy-intensive appliances are very climate-unfriendly Prof Paul Ekins, University of Westminster A cathode-ray tube TV costs about £25 per year to run and accounts for 100kg of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, whereas a plasma TV costs about £100 per year and accounts for 400kg of CO2. But some researchers say exact comparisons are difficult because of the size difference between plasmas and other screen types: cathode-ray tube and Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). "At the very least you might think that government would provide some differential incentives to accelerate the development of more energy efficient diode screens and encourage their take-up," said Professor Ekins, co-director of the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC). "Once plasma screens are bought, they are likely to be there for five years at a minimum, perhaps 10 years, perhaps longer." Organic Light-Emitting Diode (OLED) screens do not require a backlight and thus draw less power. But observers say the technology needs to overcome several technological hurdles, such as the limited lifetimes of some of the materials used in them. Professor Ekins was speaking at a news conference in London held to discuss issues around the government's forthcoming Energy White Paper, including how to promote energy efficiency while reducing demand. The White Paper is expected to be released next month. He also singled out patio heaters as especially energy-intensive. The economist, who is also professor of sustainable development at the University of Westminster, said he would personally like to see taxation on energy-intensive appliances like these and added: "The first thing for government to do is say these kinds of energy-intensive appliances are very climate-unfriendly. "They ought to be labelled as such and then there needs to be a detailed policy analysis, which in my experience has not been done, to determine what is the best way to deter their take-up and to develop more climate-friendly substitutes." He added: "Unless we have policy mechanisms of that kind we will not reduce energy demand sufficiently to achieve the kinds of reductions in carbon emissions that currently are the subject of the Climate Change Bill and are going to be signed into statute if that bill goes through." But Robert Gross, head of technology and policy assessment at UKERC, said debates on energy efficiency could become too pre-occupied by prices and incentives. "When you are looking at consumer appliances, buildings and vehicles and you are looking at people not responding very well to price-based incentives - for a variety of reasons - there's an absolutely fundamental role for straightforward legislation to improve the efficiency of these devices," he told journalists. A survey of the five most populous European nations, carried out by the Energy Saving Trust, found that Britons were the worst energy wasters in Europe, with bad habits which could cost £11bn by 2010. hooked on 'essential' gadgets 03 Jan flat-screen TVs eat more energy? 07 Dec 06 | Magazine UK 'tops energy wasters league' 23 Oct 06 | UK Saving energy on the home front 23 Oct Energy Research Centre wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6644305.stm Flexible secrets of how bats fly 11 May 2007, 08:53 GMT 09:53 secrets of how bats fly Environment correspondent, BBC News website Using a wind tunnel, a computerised imaging system and the odd dash of honey, scientists have analysed the highly flexible flap of bats' wings. Bats evolved flight independently from birds and their wings work differently. The most striking aspect is that on the upstroke, the wings turn upside down to generate more lift. Writing in the journal Science, the researchers suggest their findings could help in the development of machines which fly by flapping. Bats are agile, plotting and executing complex manoeuvres through cluttered environments "This is completely different from birds," said study leader Anders Hedenstrom from Lund University in Sweden. "There is nothing else that is similar to a bat in flight because their wings are so flexible," he told the BBC News website. The research took place in a wind tunnel at Lund University, where Professor Hedenstrom has spent more than a decade studying the flight patterns of birds. , a small species of bat that feeds on nectar. Placed on a net in the wind tunnel near to feeding tubes bearing honey water, the bats would decide from time to time to fly across for a slurp or two of food. As they flew, their wings displaced tiny water droplets, about one micron (one thousandth of a millimetre) in diameter, which had been injected into the apparatus. "Then we create a thin light sheet with a pulsed laser," explained Professor Hedenstrom, "which illuminates areas of the tunnel, and we capture pairs of images." The computer system scans the images for clusters of water droplets which it can then track from one snapshot to the next. "And then repeating that again and again, we can get velocity information on droplets across the whole image," Professor Hedenstrom added. Previous studies relied on filming bats in flight, but this team believes its method showed the mammals' flying secrets with much greater precision and detail. The patterns of the wing beats are complex, and change as the bats fly faster or slower. But the key part is the wing inversion. With the wing moving upwards, you might expect power to drop off and the wing to push the animals downwards. By turning the wing over, and then moving it backwards during the upstroke, power is maintained. Birds have evolved a completely different way round the problem, separating and turning their feathers so they can pass through air more freely as the wing moves upwards. Could this be useful to engineers trying to develop new modes of mechanical flight? Perhaps so, according to Geoffrey Spedding, an aerospace engineer from the University of Southern California (USC), who collaborated on the research. "Bats are agile hunters, capable of plotting and executing complex manoeuvres through cluttered environments," he said. "These are the traits we'd like our unmanned air vehicles to have because there are so many complex rural and urban environments in which we could use them." AND AUDIO NEWS Detection team to track rare bats 02 May 07 | Norfolk Flying dinos had bi-plane design 22 Jan flight of 'laid-back' bat 28 Dec 06 | England Earliest flying mammal discovered 13 Dec wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6647711.stm Walrus project banks on one tag 14 May 2007, 21:45 GMT 22:45 project banks on one tag In pictures: Tagging on ice Walrus Watch: Reporter's log Scientists' hopes are now pinned on one walrus to help them understand where the animals of west Greenland migrate over the summer months. Of the eight satellite tags the BBC saw attached to walruses in April, seven now appear to have stopped working. Project leader Erik Born said the tags were probably expelled as the walruses' hides began to heal or they could have been knocked off by the thick sea ice. The remaining working tag is attached to a female who has a calf in tow. There is a chance that some of the tags may start sending data again, but I am not so sure about this Erik Born, project leader On the BBC News website's Walrus Watch map, she appears as walrus two (W2) and is thought to be between 10 and 12 years of age. So far, she has remained close the area where she was tagged. See where the walruses have gone Dr Born, a biologist at the Greenland Institute of Natural Resources, said: "There is still a lot of ice in this area, and she will probably stay there until the ice begins to retreat. "But we hope she begins to move soon while the tag is still working. She should begin migrating any day now, but we could be unlucky if the ice remains." Dr Born said he was a little disappointed that the rest of the tags had stopped working. He said: "This year we tried a new smaller tag that we were hoping would last for longer, but this does not seem to be the case. "Walruses have a very rapid healing process, and I think the tags are being expelled as their hides are starting to mend. They might also have been knocked off as the walruses were hauling out on to the ice. "There is a chance that some of the tags may start sending data again, but I am not so sure about this." The tagging study is being run by the Greenland Institute of Natural Resources, in cooperation with the Danish National Environmental Research Institute and the Technical University of Denmark. Walrus 1: Male, 4-5 years Walrus 2: Female, 10-12 years - has yearling calf in tow Walrus 3: Anomalous data Walrus 4: Male, 5-6 years Walrus 5: Male, 18-20 years Walrus 6: Female, 5-6 years Walrus 7: Male, 5-7 years (No data yet received from a tagged female and her son) Click here to return up to date with the whereabouts of the tagged walruses Walrus project banks on one tag Walrus sat-tags beaming up data Answers to your walrus questions Walrus Watch: Reporter's log The challenges of tagging Solving the migration mystery Up close and personal Hear how it was done Danish Natural Environmental Research Institute Greenland Institute of Natural Resources Technical University of Denmark wins science book prize Hubble spots ring of dark matter Walrus project banks on one tag slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6654975.stm | Devon | South West faces losing dolphins 14 May 2007, 16:36 GMT 17:36 West faces losing dolphins Conservationists say dolphin sightings are down Dolphins could be wiped out in South West waters within four years unless the EU takes action, conservationists have warned. A report found strandings were up and sightings were down over the last 15 years and blamed this on dolphins being caught in nets slung between trawlers. In 2004, the practice of "pair trawling" was banned for British trawlers within 12 miles of the UK coast. But other European boats can continue because they are outside the rules. There is also a very real danger we could be seeing the last of the bottlenose dolphins off the South West Dr Lissa Goodwin, from the dolphin protection charity Marine Connection, said sightings of bottlenose dolphins in the region were at an all-time low, with just 16 reported so far this year. Sightings peaked at 335 in 1992 but by 2004 the number had fallen to just 60, she added. ''We could be having a severe impact on a sub-population of common dolphins that we could be close to wiping out,'' said Dr Goodwin. ''There is also a very real danger that we could be seeing the last of the bottlenose dolphins off the South West (Devon, Cornwall and Dorset) shores." Numbers of dolphin strandings have risen in Devon and Cornwall She said entanglement in fishing gear, or "bycatch", was the number one cause of death in stranded dolphins, particularly common dolphins. Dr Goodwin said the number of strandings in the South West had risen from 58 in 1990 to more than 100 every year since 1997. Last year, there were 128 across Devon and Cornwall. Campaigners say only an EU-wide ban on pair trawlers, and the deployment of "pinger" devices which emit a noise to warn creatures away from the nets, will save the dolphin population. Rob Deaville of the Zoological Society of London (ZSL), which conducts post-mortems on stranded dolphins, confirmed entanglement in fishing gear was the main cause of death of dolphins in the South West over the past 15 years. He said: "It is a particular problem in the South West, but it is likely to be a European-wide problem and needs a European-wide solution." leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Noise scanner could save whales 24 Apr 07 | Devon Research needed on marine sound 13 Feb died from 'multiple causes' 25 Jan 06 | London Whale stranding cases 'increase' 09 Mar 05 | Science/Nature Lost whale dies after rescue bid 21 Jan 06 | London Science at odds with fishing fleet 07 Dec 04 | Science/Nature Call for study on impact of sonar 23 Oct 04 | Cornwall Zoological Society of London Defra figures on cetacean strandings jailed over bath filming 'No blame' after fatal tree crash Warm spring brings rat outbreaks slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Free tool offers 'easy' coding Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' evidence' for Algarve arrest doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm 15 May 2007, 20:21 GMT 21:21 UK Happiness wins science book prize An exploration of how people make themselves happy wins the prestigious Royal Society Prize for Science Books. Best popular science books named Hubble spots ring of dark matter Astronomers find one of the best pieces of evidence yet for the existence of dark matter. Walrus project banks on one tag The Greenland walrus tagging project followed by the BBC may have lost contact with most of its animals. Call to tax plasma televisions Climate messages are 'off target' Female chimps can become killers UK 'failing on many key habitats' Coal 'can be clean and reliable' ALSO IN THE NEWS Scientists find a way to help office workers lose weight on job A wing and a prayer New Zealand's godwits are tracked on their epic journey to Alaska Scientist Erik Born answers your walrus tracking questions How the issue of global warming divides US evangelicals VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jealous osprey's act of 'murder' filmed Climate messages 'off target' US blocks troops from YouTube More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet China launches Nigerian satellite Bandwidth leap for British forces Breast tumour drug target found Aboriginal remains fight resolved Tunnel open again at Silbury hill Go-ahead given for GM trial site Irish badger culling 'is futile' South West faces losing dolphins Flexible secrets of how bats fly US seeks G8 climate text changes Environmental opinion and debate Whale saving begins at home Climate action 'needs devolution' Irish badger culling 'is futile' Environmental warning on biofuels Bandwidth leap for British forces Experts struggle to shore up Rome's ancient monuments The low-speed, zero noise, zero emission car for "tree huggers" FROM OTHER BBC SITES Experience Earth as never before with unprecedented footage ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/humber/6654201.stm | Humber | Go-ahead given for GM trial site 14 May 2007, 12:21 GMT 13:21 given for GM trial site The firm said planting would not start until at least next year Ministers have approved a site in East Yorkshire for GM potato trials. The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs agreed to allow biotech company BASF Plant Science to test the plants at a farm in Hedon. The company will have the licence to carry out the experiments until 2011, it was announced on Monday. A BASF spokeswoman said the firm would not start the tests until at least next year after having discussions with neighbouring farmers. Environmental campaigners criticised the government's decision to go ahead with the plans. BASF was also given permission in December for similar tests in Cambridgeshire and Derbyshire. However, it later shelved its Derbyshire plans over fears for the farmer's safety following anti-GM protests. Planting of GM potatoes has already started in Cambridgeshire. The BASF spokeswoman said the harvested potatoes would not be used for food or animal feed. She said: "We have already done trials in the Netherlands and Sweden to see if the potato is resistant to potato blight. We are just testing it in the UK to see if the resistance works in the UK climate." She added that independent experts at the Advisory Committee of Releases to the Environment evaluated the company's application for the Hedon site. Friends of the Earth's GM campaigner, Clare Oxborrow, said: "The government has given the go-ahead to this GM potato trial despite widespread local opposition and fears about the impact on neighbouring borage farmers. "We are pleased that the trial is not going ahead this year because concerns about the impact on local farmers have not been resolved. "But the best solution would be to abandon the trial completely." travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Humber Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for help after bank raid Brown rival needs more supporters Go-ahead given for GM trial site starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder evidence' for Algarve arrest evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out...
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/default.stm 4's Midnight News Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 20:21 GMT 21:21 UK Happiness wins science book prize An exploration of how people make themselves happy wins the prestigious Royal Society Prize for Science Books. Best popular science books named Hubble spots ring of dark matter Astronomers find one of the best pieces of evidence yet for the existence of dark matter. Walrus project banks on one tag The Greenland walrus tagging project followed by the BBC may have lost contact with most of its animals. Call to tax plasma televisions Climate messages are 'off target' Female chimps can become killers UK 'failing on many key habitats' Coal 'can be clean and reliable' ALSO IN THE NEWS Scientists find a way to help office workers lose weight on job A wing and a prayer New Zealand's godwits are tracked on their epic journey to Alaska Scientist Erik Born answers your walrus tracking questions How the issue of global warming divides US evangelicals VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Jealous osprey's act of 'murder' filmed Climate messages 'off target' Big plans for internet TV US blocks troops from YouTube More Video / Audio News Listen to Digital Planet China launches Nigerian satellite Bandwidth leap for British forces Breast tumour drug target found Aboriginal remains fight resolved Tunnel open again at Silbury hill Go-ahead given for GM trial site Irish badger culling 'is futile' South West faces losing dolphins Flexible secrets of how bats fly US seeks G8 climate text changes Environmental opinion and debate Whale saving begins at home Climate action 'needs devolution' Irish badger culling 'is futile' Environmental warning on biofuels Bandwidth leap for British forces Experts struggle to shore up Rome's ancient monuments The net lets us have multiple identities, says Bill Thompson FROM OTHER BBC SITES All you need to know about global warming ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
