http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Kummer-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=30008f7461b42e72&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Animal, Vegetable, Miracle: A Year of Food Life - Barbara Kingsolver Year of Vegetables few years ago, the novelist Barbara Kingsolver packed her husband and two daughters into a car and left their home in Tucson for good, resettling on a farm in southern Appalachia. Their intention was to spend a year of their new rural life eating only what they could grow themselves or buy from local suppliers. The plan was no whim. Kingsolver and her husband, Steven L. Hopp, a biologist who teaches environmental studies, had been raising fruit and vegetables at Hopp’s farm every summer since they met. Year of Food Life. By Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. Drawings by Richard A. Houser. 370 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $26.95. First Chapter: ‘Animal, Vegetable, Miracle’ Kingsolver, it emerges, is hardly unsuited to her new project, documented in “Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,” an engaging amalgam of memoir, environmental reporting and how-to book. She won the Betty Crocker Homemaker of Tomorrow Award in 1972 and studied biology in college and graduate school. Deeply frugal, she was raised in Kentucky among people who still remembered the hunger of the Depression, and she herself recalls qualifying for food stamps in the odd-jobs days before she hit the best-seller lists. Her activism also started early, when she watched farmers founder as they tried to wean themselves from tobacco. Things are better now. Kentucky farmers sell pasture-raised pork, lamb and turkey, and even “Kentucky caviar” from farmed fish. The farmers’ market supplies salad greens when it’s only starting to get warm. Local farms have meat and eggs year-round. Supermarkets become quick stops for dairy products and locally milled flour. Rules are bent for spices, and each family member gets a wild card at the outset: Kingsolver’s husband logically picks coffee (fair-trade and organic, it goes without saying), though the fresh fruit that her older daughter, Camille, craves is a bit too much (she has to settle for dried). So the hardship of Kingsolver’s planned abstinence isn’t that great. Nevertheless, with the passing months, the rigors of sticking to the seasons sink in. Economic and physical realities sink in too. Kingsolver’s 9-year-old, Lily, goes into the poultry business, calculating how many eggs and chickens she must sell to earn money for a horse. Death as a part of life — and, especially, eating — is unavoidable. Lily won’t name her chickens, so she can face killing and selling them. Her mother, an unapologetic meat-eater, points out that vegetarians kill living plants, not to mention the insects and field animals that inevitably fall to the harvesting process. “You can leave the killing to others and pretend it never happened,” she writes, “or you can look it in the eye and know it.” As for sweat and mud, no one shies from either. Kingsolver finishes one May evening “aching and hungry” and decides that “labors like this help a person appreciate why good food costs what it does. It ought to cost more.” This is a message Americans can’t hear often enough. So are the many others Kingsolver has researched with admirable thoroughness, delivering them with a casual urgency that only occasionally veers into preachiness. (“California vegetables are not the serpent, it’s all of us who open our veins to the flow of gas-fueled foods.”) The book is a useful guide for the apprentice activist, picking up where Kingsolver’s friend and mentor Joan Dye Gussow left off with “This Organic Life.” Kingsolver’s husband contributes sidebars on the hazards and inequities of industrial agriculture, along with advice on how to make yourself heard at the local supermarket and by legislators debating farm bills. Kingsolver remains aware of how challenging most readers will find her program. It comes as a relief, for instance, when she says that stress-reducing Fridays are invariably pizza night — and then it turns out that the pizza is made from scratch. But she generally succeeds at adopting the warm tone of a confiding friend who can win you over with self-deprecating, you-too-can-make-cheese-every-day enthusiasm. And she does want you to think seriously about following her example, even if you’re gardenless. At the end of the year, she finds that she has fed her family for under 50 cents a head per meal. “It doesn’t cost a fortune, in other words. Nor does it require a pickup truck, or a calico bonnet.” Corby Kummer is a senior editor of The Atlantic Monthly. His most recent book is “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” Correction: May 26, 2007 Because of an editing error, a review on Page 11 of the Book Review this weekend misstates part of the title of the book by Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. As noted in the table of contents, it is “Animal, Vegetable, Miracle” — not “Mineral.” It's Good for You, That's Why Blackboard: Study Guides; The Reviews Are In BOOKS IN BRIEF: NONFICTION Men, Women and Coyotes Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Gray-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=9ee9fb57c476565d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss The Sea Lady: A Late Romance - Margaret Drabble See You Again Kelman, the heroine of Margaret Drabble’s 17th novel, first appears in a dress in which she “gleamed and rippled with smooth muscle, like a fish.” This costume choice is “a happy accident” because Ailsa has been asked to announce, in front of a large London gathering and an even larger television audience, the winner of the Plunkett Prize “for a general science book with a vaguely defined ecological or environmental message” — which turns out to be “Hermaphrodite: Sea Change and Sex Change,” a study of gender-bending in diverse marine species. While she reads the citation in the hall of a natural history museum, beneath a giant fiberglass manta ray, “the jaws of sharks, fixed in the gape of their everlasting grins,” display “their triple rows of teeth.” pp. Harcourt. $24. First Chapter: ‘The Sea Lady’ Ailsa searches the crowd for Humphrey Clark, a marine biologist, but this man, whom “she most keenly sought and avoided and hoped and feared to see,” is absent. Instead he is presented to the reader as he rides a train to the seaside town of Ornemouth to receive an honorary degree from the local university. Given his occupation, his musings naturally assume an ichthyological cast: “One could spend one of many lifetimes studying the optics of fish. Happily studying the optics of fish. Or the limbs of lobsters. Or the spawning of lampreys. Or the sex changes of wrasse. Or the cleaning symbioses of sharks.” Just when it seems time either to towel off and abandon the book or grab an imaginary aqualung and flippers and go with the narrative flow, a third character appears, someone Drabble identifies as the Public Orator, who comments on the action: “Two of the principal characters have been presented, in some detail, and we suspect that they are soon to meet.” Who is this guy? Not, he quickly assures us, the sort of gabby, omniscient narrator you might find in 19th-century novels: “The Orator is not a puppet master, and on principle dislikes artificial arrangements, narrative devices, false dawns and false epiphanies.” Nor is he, as he later admits, a metafictional device designed to display, with a wink and a nod, the artificiality of all he conveys: “The Public Orator is trying to work out yet another story, and is both frustrated and encouraged by the lack of an ending, and by what appears (can it be?) to be the free will of the protagonists.” “The Sea Lady” is a waterlogged, ramshackle contraption that fascinates even as it annoys. Drabble’s longtime readers won’t be surprised by the novel’s tactics. After all, the most important entry in her long bibliography may be her sympathetic biography of Arnold Bennett, one of the Edwardian novelists — along with John Galsworthy and H. G. Wells — denounced by Virginia Woolf. (“They have given us a house,” Woolf declared, arguing that their concentration on external description, on the workings of society, failed to convey the inner lives of their characters, “in the hope that we may be able to deduce the human beings who live there.”) It took nerve for Drabble, then chiefly known as books about frustrated young women, to quarrel with modernism’s most exalted heroine, and she extended her challenge by hauling a lot of Edwardian luggage into novels like “The Realms of Gold,” “The Ice Age,” “The Middle Ground” and “The Radiant Way.” These books confronted Drabble’s favored cast of characters — hyper-educated, chattering solipsists — with the blunt economic and class realities of the Thatcher years. In “The Sea Lady,” Drabble has stuck to this regimen. Ailsa Kelman and Humphrey Clark share a long history, known only to themselves and each other. And fate, or possibly that unexplained Public Orator, has arranged for them to meet again as recipients of honorary degrees at Ornemouth, the place where their relationship began, more than half a century earlier. Humphrey spent his early childhood in the village of Finsterness, on the edge of Ornemouth, living with his mother and aunt while his father served in the British Navy during World War II. His memories of these days, roaming the edge of the beach with his friend, Sandy Clegg, are memorably, elegiacally recorded: “Nobody bothered to nag them not to go near the edge and not to swim out of their depth. They swam, and scrambled together along the cliffs, and waded in the river, and fished, and dug holes in the mud, and stared at the degenerate sea squirts, and collected buckets full of mermaid’s purses, and captured razorfish and cockles.” Paul Gray is a regular contributor to the Book Review. Queen and I You're Published. Now the Fun Begins? Think Again. Life Through Virgil and an Inheritance Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Rich-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=e459c0b1e8dc30c8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Falling Man - Don DeLillo Clear Blue Sky matter where you stood in the city, the air was thick after the towers fell: literally thick with the soot and stench of incinerated flesh that turned terror into a condition as inescapable as the weather. All bets were off. New Yorkers who always know where they’re going didn’t know where to go. Cab drivers named Muhammad were now feared as the enemy within; strangers on the street were improbably embraced like family under a canopy of fliers for the missing. Such, for a while anyway, was the “new normal,” though the old normal began to reassert itself almost as soon as that facile catchphrase was coined. Today 9/11 carries so many burdens — of interpretation, of sentimentality, of politics, of war — that sometimes it’s hard to find the rubble of the actual event beneath the layers of edifice we’ve built on top of it. (Or built on top of all of it except ground zero.) pp. Scribner. $26. First Chapter: ‘Falling Man’ Suzanne DeChillo/The his new novel, Don DeLillo shoves us back into the day itself in his first sentence: “It was not a street anymore but a world, a time and space of falling ash and near night.” He resurrects that world as it was, bottling the mortal dread, high anxiety and mass confusion that seem so distant now. Though the sensibility and prose are echt DeLillo, “Falling Man” is not necessarily the 9/11 novel you’d expect from novels that probe the atomic age (“Underworld”) and the Kennedy assassination (“Libra”) on the broadest imaginable canvas, intermingling historical characters with fictional creations. With the exception of , who slips into the crevices of “Falling Man” as an almost spectral presence, DeLillo mentions none of the other boldface names of 9/11, not even the mayor. Instead of unfurling an epic, DeLillo usually keeps the focus on an extended family of middle-class Manhattanites. If “Underworld” took its cues from the kinetic cinema of Eisenstein, “Falling Man,” up until its remarkable final sequence, is all oblique silences and enigmatic close-ups reminiscent of the domestic anomie of the New Wave. In DeLillo’s hands, this is not at all limiting or prosaic. There’s a method to the Resnais-like fogginess. The cumulative effect is devastating, as DeLillo in exquisite increments lowers the reader into an inexorable rendezvous with raw terror. Humor is not this novel’s calling card, but there is one tongue-in-cheek passage mocking an unwieldy nonfiction 9/11 manuscript that, we’re told, is a legend in publishing circles: “a rushed project, timely, newsworthy, even visionary, at least in the publisher’s planned catalog copy — a book detailing a series of interlocking global forces that appeared to converge at an explosive point in time and space that might be said to represent the locus of Boston, New York and Washington on a late-summer morning early in the 21st century.” DeLillo can laugh because he has been there and done that long ago, back when such projects really were visionary as well as prescient. The newly constructed twin towers, for instance, make an appearance in one of his early novels, “Players” (1977), when one of its characters goes to work for a counseling organization called the Grief Management Council: “It was her original view that the World Trade Center was an unlikely headquarters for an outfit such as this. But she changed her mind as time passed. Where else would you stack all this grief?” A decade later came DeLillo’s premonition of national apocalypse, the “airborne toxic event” of “White Noise,” and, in 1991, “Mao II,” which opens with the Rev. Sun Myung Moon’s mass wedding of 6,500 couples at Yankee Stadium and ends in the hell of Beirut. Moon, Mao, the Ayatollah Khomeini: today “Mao II” seems one of the most forceful harbingers, among the countless that were ignored, of the steady march of international terror toward the locus of Boston, New York and Washington. Bill Gray, the reclusive, Pynchonesque writer at the center of “Mao II,” laments that terrorists, the bomb makers and gunmen, have annexed the territory that once belonged to the novelist: the ability to “alter the inner life of the culture.” As he sees it, the “news of disaster is the only narrative people need,” and “the darker the news, the grander the narrative.” After 9/11, DeLillo picked up his fictional alter ego’s point in an essay for Harper’s, “In the Ruins of the Future,” that grappled with how a novelist might respond to terror now that it had hit home. “The narrative ends in the rubble and it is left to us to create the counternarrative,” DeLillo wrote. “People running for their lives are part of the story that is left to us” because “they take us beyond the hard numbers of dead and missing and give us a glimpse of elevated being.” An event like 9/11 cannot be bent to “the mercies of analogy or simile.” Primal terror — “the cellphones, the lost shoes, the handkerchiefs mashed in the faces of running men and women” — has to take precedence over politics, history and religion. “There is something empty in the sky,” he wrote. “The writer tries to give memory, tenderness and meaning to all that howling space.” Frank Rich, an Op-Ed columnist for The Times, is the author, most recently, of “The Greatest Story Ever Sold: The Decline and Fall of Truth From 9/11 to Katrina.” early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. Inside the List Man, A Woman And a Day Of Terror TBR: Inside the List Essay; In Search of the Great American Hockey Novel World Trade Center (NYC) Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Pinker-t.html The Canon: - Natalie Angier baby sucks on a pencil and her panicky mother fears the child will get lead poisoning. A politician argues that hydrogen can replace fossil fuels as our nation’s energy source. A consumer tells a reporter that she refuses to eat tomatoes that have genes in them. And a newsmagazine condemns the prospects of cloning because it could mass-produce an army of zombies. 293 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $27. First Chapter: ‘The Canon’ These are just a few examples of scientific illiteracy — inane misconceptions that could have been avoided with a smidgen of freshman science. (For those afraid to ask: pencil “lead” is carbon; hydrogen fuel takes more energy to produce than it releases; all living things contain genes; a clone is just a twin.) Though we live in an era of stunning scientific understanding, all too often the average educated person will have none of it. People who would sneer at the vulgarian who has never read Virginia Woolf will insouciantly boast of their ignorance of basic physics. Most of our intellectual magazines discuss science only when it bears on their political concerns or when they can portray science as just another political arena. As the nation’s math departments and biotech labs fill up with foreign students, the brightest young Americans learn better ways to sue one another or to capitalize on currency fluctuations. And all this is on top of our nation’s endless supply of New Age nostrums, psychic hot lines, creationist textbook stickers and other flimflam. The costs of an ignorance of science are not just practical ones like misbegotten policies, forgone cures and a unilateral disarmament in national competitiveness. There is a moral cost as well. It is an astonishing fact about our species that we understand so much about the history of the universe, the forces that make it tick, the stuff it’s made of, the origin of living things and the machinery of life. A failure to nurture this knowledge shows a philistine indifference to the magnificent achievements humanity is capable of, like allowing a great work of art to molder in a warehouse. In “The Canon: Natalie Angier aims to do her part for scientific literacy. Though Angier is a regular contributor to the Science Times section of this newspaper, “The Canon” departs from the usual treatment of science by journalists, who typically cover the “news,” the finding that upsets the apple cart, rather than the consensus. Though one can understand why journalists tend to report the latest word from the front — editors’ demand for news rather than pedagogy, and the desire to show that science is a fractious human activity rather than priestly revelation — this approach doesn’t always serve a widespread understanding of science. The results of isolated experiments are more ephemeral than conclusions from literature reviews (which usually don’t fit into a press release), and the discovery-du-jour approach can whipsaw readers between contradictory claims and leave them thinking, “Whatever.” Angier’s goals are summed up in two words in her subtitle: beautiful basics. “The Canon” presents the fundamentals of science: numbers and probability, matter and energy, the origins and structure of living things, and the natural history of our planet, solar system, galaxy and universe. These are, she judges, the basics that every educated person should master, and a prerequisite to a genuine understanding of the material in any newspaper’s science coverage. And she presents these basics as beautiful: worthy of knowing for their own sake, even if they won’t help us save the planet, age successfully or compete with the Chinese. “The Canon” begins on an engaging note, lamenting what is one of my pet peeves as well — the idea that science is something for kids. When their children turn 13, Angier notes, many parents abandon their memberships in zoos and science museums for more “mature” institutions like theaters and art museums. And who can blame them, when visiting a modern science museum, in her priceless description, consists of a “mad pinball pinging from one hands-on science exhibit to the next, pounding on knobs to make artificial earthquakes, or cranking gears to see Newton’s laws in motion, or something like that; who bothers to read the explanatory placards anyway? And, oops, hmm, hey, Mom, this thing seems to have stopped working!” Many new science museums seem to be built on the dubious theory that a person’s life interests are formed in childhood — that “just as the twig is bent, the tree’s inclined.” Instead they may be conveying the message “When I was a child ... I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things.” Steven Pinker is Johnstone professor of psychology at Harvard University. His seventh book, “The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window Into Human Nature,” will be published in September. Bugs and Sinning Dolphins Pulitzer Prizes in Letters Go to Updike and Simon Wilson Autographed Photo
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Rosen-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=05045b4e9c5cfcb5&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Tranquil Star: Unpublished Stories - Primo Levi years ago last month, Primo Levi plunged headlong into the stairwell of the apartment building in Turin where he had been born and to which he had returned after liberation from Auschwitz. At the time, there was a great deal of debate about the nature and meaning of his death: was it an accident or a suicide, illness or cosmic despair? But it is surely the way he lived and wrote in the four decades after the war that matter most. If the ancient Greeks were right that it is the manner of one’s death as much as the substance of one’s life that determines its ultimate meaning, then much of European Jewry, not to mention European culture, would need to be written off as an abject failure. Primo Levi. Translated by Ann Goldstein and Alessandra Bastagli. 164 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $21.95. Levi is justly revered for his masterly memoirs, beginning with “Survival in Auschwitz” and continuing through “The Reawakening,” “The Periodic Table” and finally, and most darkly, “The Drowned and the Saved.” “Survival in Auschwitz” was written in a white heat soon after Levi’s liberation and published in 1947, though translation and recognition came much more slowly. It has often been noted, but is worth noting again, that the American title represents an unfortunate decision by the publisher to replace the haunting Italian title, “Se Questo È un Uomo” — “If This Is a Man” — with a more utilitarian one. The decision signals a confusion that exists in Levi’s reputation and that perhaps existed even inside of him: the urge to poeticize and philosophize competing with the need to bear witness, to record in as literal and straightforward a manner as possible the Nazi war against Western civilization in general and Jews in particular. But in all his writing, Levi, who worked as an industrial chemist much of his life, combined scientific detachment with deep, sympathetic imagination, a combination that allowed him to parse with excruciating clarity all the degradations — large and small, physical, psychic and spiritual — of the Nazi genocide. In keeping with the complexity and confusions of being a philosopher-witness, Levi was also a poet and a fiction writer. Though he wrote an honorable novel about a band of Jewish partisans, “If Not Now, When?” (Levi himself was a partisan before his arrest and shipment to Auschwitz), he was more successful with short stories. He was a master of a peculiar hybrid form, a sort of science fiction that seems half Ray Bradbury and half Kafka, with an added undertow that threatens to carry the reader into an abyss of dark knowledge even though the Holocaust is almost never overtly mentioned. There are many fine examples of Levi’s strange fictional style in “A Tranquil Star,” a collection of 17 previously untranslated stories rendered into lucid, seamless English by Ann Goldstein and Alessandra Bastagli. The book is divided into two sections corresponding roughly to two phases of Levi’s career. In the first, he was a full-time chemist and paint-factory manager who wrote in the margins of that life; in the second he was a full-time writer, having achieved enough renown and security to leave his job in the mid-1970s. But all of these stories live under and inside the shadow of the Holocaust, and it would be futile, and perhaps a betrayal, to divest them of their context by reading them any other way. Even a story like “Bear Meat” (1961), which recalls a free-spirited prewar trip into the mountains that Levi took with two friends, has its post-Holocaust reverberations. Unequipped for their alpine journey, the boys in the story are soon forced to “eat bear meat,” slang for tasting extreme discomfort. They are lost and exhausted, and barely survive freezing in the night, but the narrator looks back on the experience with dreamy longing. Respect, love, success — “none of these things,” he says, “has the taste of bear meat: the taste of being strong and free, which means free to make mistakes; the taste of feeling young in the mountains, of being your own master, which means master of the world.” By focusing on nostalgia not for prewar pleasure but for prewar pain, Levi shrewdly evokes a time when hardship too had an innocence, when it tempered the human spirit rather than extinguishing it. Jonathan Rosen is the editorial director of Nextbook. His most recent novel is “Joy Comes in the Morning.” REVIEW; Crystallizing Legacy Of Auschwitz Survivor The Art of Self-Effacement Auschwitz, Surrendering To Despair The Chemist and the Holocaust Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Kamp-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=0fc2f22ef064573a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss The - Marco Pierre White have a new boy starting next month,” announces Raymond Blanc, the esteemed chef-owner of a British countryside restaurant called Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons, about a third of the way into Marco Pierre White’s memoir. “His name is Marco White and he has worked for Albert Roux, Pierre Koffman and Nico Ladenis. None of them could break him.” DEVIL IN THE KITCHEN Sex, Pain, Madness, and the Making of a Great Chef. By Marco Pierre White with James Steen. Illustrated. 244 pp. Bloomsbury. $24.95. That roster of chefs is probably unknown to you, but as White himself explains, they were the top of the heap in 1980s London, the kings of British fine dining, with difficult temperaments to match. The point being made is that the young White was a hard bloke, notoriously impervious to “bollocking,” his favored term for the ritual abuse heaped upon kitchen inferiors by the man in charge. In time, White got to run his own kitchen, at a place called Harveys, and then several more kitchens after that, ascending in the late ’80s and ’90s to greater culinary and P.R. heights than any of his mentors. He also out-bollocked them all, acquiring a reputation as “the most foul-tempered, most mercurial and most bullying” of British chefs, as Bill Buford described him in last year’s “Heat.” (That book’s main character, Mario Batali, spent a tumultuous few months cooking under White’s thumb at a London pub called the Six Bells in 1983, when both men were callow and unfamous.) White is a relative unknown in America, while a former protégé from whom he is estranged, Gordon Ramsay, has turned into a trans-Atlantic restaurateur and reality-TV star (with, among other shows, “Hell’s Kitchen” on Fox and “The F-Word” on Britain’s Channel 4). Factor in Anthony Bourdain’s aggressively marketed naughty-boy persona and the vogue for elbows-out kitchen machismo on programs like “Iron Chef” and “Top Chef,” and you get the sense that White, whose reign predated all this stuff, is trying to stake his claim as the original gangsta. Certainly the packaging of — whose British version carries the even more incendiary title “White Slave” — suggests this. The jacket copy labels White “the godfather of rock-star chefs,” and the cover displays a sexy, menacing portrait, by the art photographer Bob Carlos Clarke, of White in his prime: his hair Euro-wavy like a Fiat heir’s, his face elegantly gaunt, his muscular right forearm tensed as he ominously clutches a cleaver. So it’s a relief to find that once you get past all the histrionic buildup, is a moving, unaffected, delightfully honest book. At times it’s almost sweet. The culinary memoir it most recalls is, of all things, Jacques Pépin’s “Apprentice.” Like Pépin, White grew up in a family that had little but an appreciation of good food. And like “The Apprentice,” White’s book has early moments of heartbreaking privation and loss that give way to a happy momentum — a dawning on the protagonist’s part and, eventually, on that of his bosses, peers and the public, that he is preternaturally gifted at cooking. White, despite his looks and name, is as British as beans on toast. He was born in Leeds, the industrial seat of West Yorkshire, in 1961. His father, Frank, was a local who worked as a deputy chef in various restaurants in the area. His mother, Maria Rosa, was an Italian beauty from Genoa who’d fallen for Frank during a visit to Leeds. Marco, to his chagrin, was the only one of the four White boys to be given an Italian name; his brothers were named Graham, Clive and Craig. His middle name, Pierre, a whimsical suggestion on the part of a Genoese aunt, was an even greater source of embarrassment, kept secret until White revealed it to the restaurant critic for The Sunday Times of London in a 1987 telephone conversation. The critic, Egon Ronay, shortly thereafter gave Harveys a rave review and identified the chef as Marco Pierre White — simultaneously putting the restaurant on the map and rebranding the rough-around-the-edges chef as a posh-sounding Pan-European triple-namer. But before all that could happen, there was the requisite slog of apprenticeships and subordinate positions in kitchens far and wide, starting at the Hotel St. George in Harrogate, a spa town near Leeds. White was all of 16 when he bailed on school and got lost in work, “already hooked on the security of the kitchen.” A dyslexic before dyslexia was widely understood, he found solace in the physicality and sensuality of food prep — he was in his element, whereas at school, he writes, “for a very long time I assumed I was an idiot.” David Kamp, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, is United States of Arugula.” in Britain Wins Libel Judgment Against The Times Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix:
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/books/index.html?partner=rssnyt Books - Review Books of the Times 'Tearing Down the Wall of Sound' Reviewed by JANET MASLIN “Tearing Down the Wall of Sound” would feel like a crime story even if its subject, Phil Spector, were not currently on trial for murder. Books Of the Times Reviewed by WILLIAM GRIMES Nayan Chanda says that globalization is an expression of human desires that dates to the dawn of time. Books of The Times 'A Thousand Splendid Suns' Reviewed by MICHIKO KAKUTANI Khaled Hosseini’s latest novel, which focuses on women and family, starts off programmatically and gains speed and emotional power as it slowly unfurls. The Brain: Malleable, Capable, Vulnerable By ABIGAIL ZUGER, M.D. Norman Doidge’s fascinating synopsis of the current revolution in neuroscience straddles the gap between science and self-help. Download an Excerpt From the Author's Web Site Books of the Times 'Lulu Meets God and Doubts Him' Reviewed by JANET MASLIN Danielle Ganek’s captivatingly titled novel is a genre book, but it’s better than most. In Search of Graham Greene’s Capri This sparkling island in the Bay of Naples may be known as a summer playground for the rich and famous, but it was also a place where End of the Affair” found the solitude to write. Slide Show: On the Isle of Capri Related Site: Graham Greene's Author Page Related Review: 'Greene on Capri,' by Shirley Hazzard Reviewed by FRANK RICH This is not necessarily the 9/11 novel you’d expect from and “Libra.” 'The Canon: Reviewed by STEVEN PINKER A refresher course on the fundamentals of science that every person should master. 'A Tranquil Star: Unpublished Stories' Reviewed by JONATHAN ROSEN Even when it wasn’t explicitly about the Holocaust, Primo Levi’s fiction was haunted by his time at Auschwitz. 'The By MARCO PIERRE WHITE Reviewed by DAVID KAMP A memoir by a British bad-boy chef who throws bottles at his staff. 'The Sea Lady: A Late Romance' Reviewed by PAUL GRAY In Margaret Drabble’s novel, an estranged couple return to the North Sea town where they met. 'Animal, Vegetable, Miracle: A Year of Food Life' By BARBARA KINGSOLVER with STEVEN L. HOPP and CAMILLE KINGSOLVER Reviewed by CORBY KUMMER Barbara Kingsolver describes her family’s attempt to eat only locally grown food. “It was not a street anymore but a world, a time and space of falling ash and near night.” “Does it matter if the great majority of people know little or nothing about science or the scientific mindset?” By BARBARA KINGSOLVER with STEVEN L. HOPP and CAMILLE KINGSOLVER “We wanted to live in a place that could feed us: where rain falls, crops grow, and drinking water bubbles right up out of the ground.” “The winning book was about fish, and to present it, she appeared to have dressed herself as a mermaid, in silver sequinned scales.” from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 'The Assault on Reason,' 'When a Crocodile Eats the Sun,' by Newt Gingrich and William R. Forstchen 'Bad Luck and Trouble,' by Wendy Williams and Robert Whitcomb by Roy Blount Jr. This week: Frank Rich on Don DeLillo; Marco Pierre White, Jonathan Rosen on Primo Levi; and Dwight Garner, senior editor, with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, is the host. This Week's Book Review Podcast ( Seeking Signs of Literary Life in Iran Forget reading “Lolita” in Iran. In the officially vetted edition of “Madame Bovary,” even adultery is off limits. The Funny Pages | Sunday Serial This week, Chapter 3: Mike Mackenzie was standing at the very back of the sale room, just inside the doorway. The 10 Best Books of 2006 100 Notable Books of 2006 Best American Fiction Survey Nobel Prize in Literature Book Review Editor Responds Sign Up for the Books Update Receive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Sunday. SEARCH BOOK REVIEWS SINCE 1981: MOST POPULAR - BOOKS Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Books of the Times: From Hitmaker to Defendant, a of The Times: A Thousand Splendid Suns Books Of the Times: The Rise of Globalization, a Story of Human Desires Books of The Times: Al Gore Speaks of a Nation in Danger My Year of Vegetables Assault on Hawaii. On Grammar Too. The Clear Blue Sky Grade-School Girls, Grown-Up Gossip In Search of Graham Greene's Capri The Gospel of Dobson A Thousand Splendid Suns Keepsake Front Page Reprint Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or rent a home. What movie should you see?
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Kummer-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=30008f7461b42e72&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Animal, Vegetable, Miracle: A Year of Food Life - Barbara Kingsolver - Books - Review - Year of Vegetables Sign 27, 2007 A few years ago, the novelist Barbara Kingsolver packed her husband and two daughters into a car and left their home in Tucson for good, resettling on a farm in southern Appalachia. Their intention was to spend a year of their new rural life eating only what they could grow themselves or buy from local suppliers. The plan was no whim. Kingsolver and her husband, Steven L. Hopp, a biologist who teaches environmental studies, had been raising fruit and vegetables at Hopp’s farm every summer since they met. Year of Food Life. By Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. Drawings by Richard A. Houser. 370 pp. HarperCollins Publishers. $26.95. First Chapter: ‘Animal, Vegetable, Miracle’ Kingsolver, it emerges, is hardly unsuited to her new project, documented in “Animal, Vegetable, Miracle,” an engaging amalgam of memoir, environmental reporting and how-to book. She won the Betty Crocker Homemaker of Tomorrow Award in 1972 and studied biology in college and graduate school. Deeply frugal, she was raised in Kentucky among people who still remembered the hunger of the Depression, and she herself recalls qualifying for food stamps in the odd-jobs days before she hit the best-seller lists. Her activism also started early, when she watched farmers founder as they tried to wean themselves from tobacco. Things are better now. Kentucky farmers sell pasture-raised pork, lamb and turkey, and even “Kentucky caviar” from farmed fish. The farmers’ market supplies salad greens when it’s only starting to get warm. Local farms have meat and eggs year-round. Supermarkets become quick stops for dairy products and locally milled flour. Rules are bent for spices, and each family member gets a wild card at the outset: Kingsolver’s husband logically picks coffee (fair-trade and organic, it goes without saying), though the fresh fruit that her older daughter, Camille, craves is a bit too much (she has to settle for dried). So the hardship of Kingsolver’s planned abstinence isn’t that great. Nevertheless, with the passing months, the rigors of sticking to the seasons sink in. Economic and physical realities sink in too. Kingsolver’s 9-year-old, Lily, goes into the poultry business, calculating how many eggs and chickens she must sell to earn money for a horse. Death as a part of life — and, especially, eating — is unavoidable. Lily won’t name her chickens, so she can face killing and selling them. Her mother, an unapologetic meat-eater, points out that vegetarians kill living plants, not to mention the insects and field animals that inevitably fall to the harvesting process. “You can leave the killing to others and pretend it never happened,” she writes, “or you can look it in the eye and know it.” As for sweat and mud, no one shies from either. Kingsolver finishes one May evening “aching and hungry” and decides that “labors like this help a person appreciate why good food costs what it does. It ought to cost more.” This is a message Americans can’t hear often enough. So are the many others Kingsolver has researched with admirable thoroughness, delivering them with a casual urgency that only occasionally veers into preachiness. (“California vegetables are not the serpent, it’s all of us who open our veins to the flow of gas-fueled foods.”) The book is a useful guide for the apprentice activist, picking up where Kingsolver’s friend and mentor Joan Dye Gussow left off with “This Organic Life.” Kingsolver’s husband contributes sidebars on the hazards and inequities of industrial agriculture, along with advice on how to make yourself heard at the local supermarket and by legislators debating farm bills. Kingsolver remains aware of how challenging most readers will find her program. It comes as a relief, for instance, when she says that stress-reducing Fridays are invariably pizza night — and then it turns out that the pizza is made from scratch. But she generally succeeds at adopting the warm tone of a confiding friend who can win you over with self-deprecating, you-too-can-make-cheese-every-day enthusiasm. And she does want you to think seriously about following her example, even if you’re gardenless. At the end of the year, she finds that she has fed her family for under 50 cents a head per meal. “It doesn’t cost a fortune, in other words. Nor does it require a pickup truck, or a calico bonnet.” Corby Kummer is a senior editor of The Atlantic Monthly. His most recent book is “The Pleasures of Slow Food.” Correction: May 26, 2007 Because of an editing error, a review on Page 11 of the Book Review this weekend misstates part of the title of the book by Barbara Kingsolver with Steven L. Hopp and Camille Kingsolver. As noted in the table of contents, it is “Animal, Vegetable, Miracle” — not “Mineral.” OF THE TIMES; Because It's Good for You, That's Why Blackboard: Study Guides; The Reviews Are In BOOKS IN BRIEF: NONFICTION Men, Women and Coyotes Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Gray-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=9ee9fb57c476565d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss The Sea Lady: A Late Romance - Margaret Drabble - Books - Review - See You Again Sign 27, 2007 Ailsa Kelman, the heroine of Margaret Drabble’s 17th novel, first appears in a dress in which she “gleamed and rippled with smooth muscle, like a fish.” This costume choice is “a happy accident” because Ailsa has been asked to announce, in front of a large London gathering and an even larger television audience, the winner of the Plunkett Prize “for a general science book with a vaguely defined ecological or environmental message” — which turns out to be “Hermaphrodite: Sea Change and Sex Change,” a study of gender-bending in diverse marine species. While she reads the citation in the hall of a natural history museum, beneath a giant fiberglass manta ray, “the jaws of sharks, fixed in the gape of their everlasting grins,” display “their triple rows of teeth.” pp. Harcourt. $24. First Chapter: ‘The Sea Lady’ Ailsa searches the crowd for Humphrey Clark, a marine biologist, but this man, whom “she most keenly sought and avoided and hoped and feared to see,” is absent. Instead he is presented to the reader as he rides a train to the seaside town of Ornemouth to receive an honorary degree from the local university. Given his occupation, his musings naturally assume an ichthyological cast: “One could spend one of many lifetimes studying the optics of fish. Happily studying the optics of fish. Or the limbs of lobsters. Or the spawning of lampreys. Or the sex changes of wrasse. Or the cleaning symbioses of sharks.” Just when it seems time either to towel off and abandon the book or grab an imaginary aqualung and flippers and go with the narrative flow, a third character appears, someone Drabble identifies as the Public Orator, who comments on the action: “Two of the principal characters have been presented, in some detail, and we suspect that they are soon to meet.” Who is this guy? Not, he quickly assures us, the sort of gabby, omniscient narrator you might find in 19th-century novels: “The Orator is not a puppet master, and on principle dislikes artificial arrangements, narrative devices, false dawns and false epiphanies.” Nor is he, as he later admits, a metafictional device designed to display, with a wink and a nod, the artificiality of all he conveys: “The Public Orator is trying to work out yet another story, and is both frustrated and encouraged by the lack of an ending, and by what appears (can it be?) to be the free will of the protagonists.” “The Sea Lady” is a waterlogged, ramshackle contraption that fascinates even as it annoys. Drabble’s longtime readers won’t be surprised by the novel’s tactics. After all, the most important entry in her long bibliography may be her sympathetic biography of Arnold Bennett, one of the Edwardian novelists — along with John Galsworthy and H. G. Wells — denounced by Virginia Woolf. (“They have given us a house,” Woolf declared, arguing that their concentration on external description, on the workings of society, failed to convey the inner lives of their characters, “in the hope that we may be able to deduce the human beings who live there.”) It took nerve for Drabble, then chiefly known as books about frustrated young women, to quarrel with modernism’s most exalted heroine, and she extended her challenge by hauling a lot of Edwardian luggage into novels like “The Realms of Gold,” “The Ice Age,” “The Middle Ground” and “The Radiant Way.” These books confronted Drabble’s favored cast of characters — hyper-educated, chattering solipsists — with the blunt economic and class realities of the Thatcher years. In “The Sea Lady,” Drabble has stuck to this regimen. Ailsa Kelman and Humphrey Clark share a long history, known only to themselves and each other. And fate, or possibly that unexplained Public Orator, has arranged for them to meet again as recipients of honorary degrees at Ornemouth, the place where their relationship began, more than half a century earlier. Humphrey spent his early childhood in the village of Finsterness, on the edge of Ornemouth, living with his mother and aunt while his father served in the British Navy during World War II. His memories of these days, roaming the edge of the beach with his friend, Sandy Clegg, are memorably, elegiacally recorded: “Nobody bothered to nag them not to go near the edge and not to swim out of their depth. They swam, and scrambled together along the cliffs, and waded in the river, and fished, and dug holes in the mud, and stared at the degenerate sea squirts, and collected buckets full of mermaid’s purses, and captured razorfish and cockles.” Paul Gray is a regular contributor to the Book Review. Queen and I You're Published. Now the Fun Begins? Think Again. BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Discovering Life Through Virgil and an Inheritance Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Rich-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=e459c0b1e8dc30c8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Falling Man - Don DeLillo - Books - Review - Clear Blue Sky Sign 27, 2007 No matter where you stood in the city, the air was thick after the towers fell: literally thick with the soot and stench of incinerated flesh that turned terror into a condition as inescapable as the weather. All bets were off. New Yorkers who always know where they’re going didn’t know where to go. Cab drivers named Muhammad were now feared as the enemy within; strangers on the street were improbably embraced like family under a canopy of fliers for the missing. Such, for a while anyway, was the “new normal,” though the old normal began to reassert itself almost as soon as that facile catchphrase was coined. Today 9/11 carries so many burdens — of interpretation, of sentimentality, of politics, of war — that sometimes it’s hard to find the rubble of the actual event beneath the layers of edifice we’ve built on top of it. (Or built on top of all of it except ground zero.) pp. Scribner. $26. First Chapter: ‘Falling Man’ Suzanne DeChillo/The his new novel, Don DeLillo shoves us back into the day itself in his first sentence: “It was not a street anymore but a world, a time and space of falling ash and near night.” He resurrects that world as it was, bottling the mortal dread, high anxiety and mass confusion that seem so distant now. Though the sensibility and prose are echt DeLillo, “Falling Man” is not necessarily the 9/11 novel you’d expect from novels that probe the atomic age (“Underworld”) and the Kennedy assassination (“Libra”) on the broadest imaginable canvas, intermingling historical characters with fictional creations. With the exception of , who slips into the crevices of “Falling Man” as an almost spectral presence, DeLillo mentions none of the other boldface names of 9/11, not even the mayor. Instead of unfurling an epic, DeLillo usually keeps the focus on an extended family of middle-class Manhattanites. If “Underworld” took its cues from the kinetic cinema of Eisenstein, “Falling Man,” up until its remarkable final sequence, is all oblique silences and enigmatic close-ups reminiscent of the domestic anomie of the New Wave. In DeLillo’s hands, this is not at all limiting or prosaic. There’s a method to the Resnais-like fogginess. The cumulative effect is devastating, as DeLillo in exquisite increments lowers the reader into an inexorable rendezvous with raw terror. Humor is not this novel’s calling card, but there is one tongue-in-cheek passage mocking an unwieldy nonfiction 9/11 manuscript that, we’re told, is a legend in publishing circles: “a rushed project, timely, newsworthy, even visionary, at least in the publisher’s planned catalog copy — a book detailing a series of interlocking global forces that appeared to converge at an explosive point in time and space that might be said to represent the locus of Boston, New York and Washington on a late-summer morning early in the 21st century.” DeLillo can laugh because he has been there and done that long ago, back when such projects really were visionary as well as prescient. The newly constructed twin towers, for instance, make an appearance in one of his early novels, “Players” (1977), when one of its characters goes to work for a counseling organization called the Grief Management Council: “It was her original view that the World Trade Center was an unlikely headquarters for an outfit such as this. But she changed her mind as time passed. Where else would you stack all this grief?” A decade later came DeLillo’s premonition of national apocalypse, the “airborne toxic event” of “White Noise,” and, in 1991, “Mao II,” which opens with the Rev. Sun Myung Moon’s mass wedding of 6,500 couples at Yankee Stadium and ends in the hell of Beirut. Moon, Mao, the Ayatollah Khomeini: today “Mao II” seems one of the most forceful harbingers, among the countless that were ignored, of the steady march of international terror toward the locus of Boston, New York and Washington. Bill Gray, the reclusive, Pynchonesque writer at the center of “Mao II,” laments that terrorists, the bomb makers and gunmen, have annexed the territory that once belonged to the novelist: the ability to “alter the inner life of the culture.” As he sees it, the “news of disaster is the only narrative people need,” and “the darker the news, the grander the narrative.” After 9/11, DeLillo picked up his fictional alter ego’s point in an essay for Harper’s, “In the Ruins of the Future,” that grappled with how a novelist might respond to terror now that it had hit home. “The narrative ends in the rubble and it is left to us to create the counternarrative,” DeLillo wrote. “People running for their lives are part of the story that is left to us” because “they take us beyond the hard numbers of dead and missing and give us a glimpse of elevated being.” An event like 9/11 cannot be bent to “the mercies of analogy or simile.” Primal terror — “the cellphones, the lost shoes, the handkerchiefs mashed in the faces of running men and women” — has to take precedence over politics, history and religion. “There is something empty in the sky,” he wrote. “The writer tries to give memory, tenderness and meaning to all that howling space.” Frank Rich, an Op-Ed columnist for The Times, is the author, most recently, of “The Greatest Story Ever Sold: The Decline and Fall of Truth From 9/11 to Katrina.” Inside the List BOOKS OF THE TIMES; A Man, A Woman And a Day Of Terror TBR: Inside the List Essay; In Search of the Great American Hockey Novel World Trade Center (NYC) Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Pinker-t.html The Canon: A Whirligig Tour of the Beautiful Basics of Science - Natalie Angier - Books - Review - 27, 2007 A baby sucks on a pencil and her panicky mother fears the child will get lead poisoning. A politician argues that hydrogen can replace fossil fuels as our nation’s energy source. A consumer tells a reporter that she refuses to eat tomatoes that have genes in them. And a newsmagazine condemns the prospects of cloning because it could mass-produce an army of zombies. Whirligig Tour of the Beautiful Basics of Science. 293 pp. Houghton Mifflin Company. $27. First Chapter: ‘The Canon’ These are just a few examples of scientific illiteracy — inane misconceptions that could have been avoided with a smidgen of freshman science. (For those afraid to ask: pencil “lead” is carbon; hydrogen fuel takes more energy to produce than it releases; all living things contain genes; a clone is just a twin.) Though we live in an era of stunning scientific understanding, all too often the average educated person will have none of it. People who would sneer at the vulgarian who has never read Virginia Woolf will insouciantly boast of their ignorance of basic physics. Most of our intellectual magazines discuss science only when it bears on their political concerns or when they can portray science as just another political arena. As the nation’s math departments and biotech labs fill up with foreign students, the brightest young Americans learn better ways to sue one another or to capitalize on currency fluctuations. And all this is on top of our nation’s endless supply of New Age nostrums, psychic hot lines, creationist textbook stickers and other flimflam. The costs of an ignorance of science are not just practical ones like misbegotten policies, forgone cures and a unilateral disarmament in national competitiveness. There is a moral cost as well. It is an astonishing fact about our species that we understand so much about the history of the universe, the forces that make it tick, the stuff it’s made of, the origin of living things and the machinery of life. A failure to nurture this knowledge shows a philistine indifference to the magnificent achievements humanity is capable of, like allowing a great work of art to molder in a warehouse. In “The Canon: A Whirligig Tour of the Beautiful Basics of Science,” Natalie Angier aims to do her part for scientific literacy. Though Angier is a regular contributor to the Science Times section of this newspaper, “The Canon” departs from the usual treatment of science by journalists, who typically cover the “news,” the finding that upsets the apple cart, rather than the consensus. Though one can understand why journalists tend to report the latest word from the front — editors’ demand for news rather than pedagogy, and the desire to show that science is a fractious human activity rather than priestly revelation — this approach doesn’t always serve a widespread understanding of science. The results of isolated experiments are more ephemeral than conclusions from literature reviews (which usually don’t fit into a press release), and the discovery-du-jour approach can whipsaw readers between contradictory claims and leave them thinking, “Whatever.” Angier’s goals are summed up in two words in her subtitle: beautiful basics. “The Canon” presents the fundamentals of science: numbers and probability, matter and energy, the origins and structure of living things, and the natural history of our planet, solar system, galaxy and universe. These are, she judges, the basics that every educated person should master, and a prerequisite to a genuine understanding of the material in any newspaper’s science coverage. And she presents these basics as beautiful: worthy of knowing for their own sake, even if they won’t help us save the planet, age successfully or compete with the Chinese. “The Canon” begins on an engaging note, lamenting what is one of my pet peeves as well — the idea that science is something for kids. When their children turn 13, Angier notes, many parents abandon their memberships in zoos and science museums for more “mature” institutions like theaters and art museums. And who can blame them, when visiting a modern science museum, in her priceless description, consists of a “mad pinball pinging from one hands-on science exhibit to the next, pounding on knobs to make artificial earthquakes, or cranking gears to see Newton’s laws in motion, or something like that; who bothers to read the explanatory placards anyway? And, oops, hmm, hey, Mom, this thing seems to have stopped working!” Many new science museums seem to be built on the dubious theory that a person’s life interests are formed in childhood — that “just as the twig is bent, the tree’s inclined.” Instead they may be conveying the message “When I was a child ... I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things.” Steven Pinker is Johnstone professor of psychology at Harvard University. His seventh book, “The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window Into Human Nature,” will be published in September. OF THE TIMES; Virtuous Bugs and Sinning Dolphins Pulitzer Prizes in Letters Go to Updike and Simon million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands American Flamingo, Plate 431 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Rosen-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=05045b4e9c5cfcb5&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Tranquil Star: Unpublished Stories - Primo Levi - Books - Review - 27, 2007 Twenty years ago last month, Primo Levi plunged headlong into the stairwell of the apartment building in Turin where he had been born and to which he had returned after liberation from Auschwitz. At the time, there was a great deal of debate about the nature and meaning of his death: was it an accident or a suicide, illness or cosmic despair? But it is surely the way he lived and wrote in the four decades after the war that matter most. If the ancient Greeks were right that it is the manner of one’s death as much as the substance of one’s life that determines its ultimate meaning, then much of European Jewry, not to mention European culture, would need to be written off as an abject failure. Primo Levi. Translated by Ann Goldstein and Alessandra Bastagli. 164 pp. W. W. Norton & Company. $21.95. Levi is justly revered for his masterly memoirs, beginning with “Survival in Auschwitz” and continuing through “The Reawakening,” “The Periodic Table” and finally, and most darkly, “The Drowned and the Saved.” “Survival in Auschwitz” was written in a white heat soon after Levi’s liberation and published in 1947, though translation and recognition came much more slowly. It has often been noted, but is worth noting again, that the American title represents an unfortunate decision by the publisher to replace the haunting Italian title, “Se Questo È un Uomo” — “If This Is a Man” — with a more utilitarian one. The decision signals a confusion that exists in Levi’s reputation and that perhaps existed even inside of him: the urge to poeticize and philosophize competing with the need to bear witness, to record in as literal and straightforward a manner as possible the Nazi war against Western civilization in general and Jews in particular. But in all his writing, Levi, who worked as an industrial chemist much of his life, combined scientific detachment with deep, sympathetic imagination, a combination that allowed him to parse with excruciating clarity all the degradations — large and small, physical, psychic and spiritual — of the Nazi genocide. In keeping with the complexity and confusions of being a philosopher-witness, Levi was also a poet and a fiction writer. Though he wrote an honorable novel about a band of Jewish partisans, “If Not Now, When?” (Levi himself was a partisan before his arrest and shipment to Auschwitz), he was more successful with short stories. He was a master of a peculiar hybrid form, a sort of science fiction that seems half Ray Bradbury and half Kafka, with an added undertow that threatens to carry the reader into an abyss of dark knowledge even though the Holocaust is almost never overtly mentioned. There are many fine examples of Levi’s strange fictional style in “A Tranquil Star,” a collection of 17 previously untranslated stories rendered into lucid, seamless English by Ann Goldstein and Alessandra Bastagli. The book is divided into two sections corresponding roughly to two phases of Levi’s career. In the first, he was a full-time chemist and paint-factory manager who wrote in the margins of that life; in the second he was a full-time writer, having achieved enough renown and security to leave his job in the mid-1970s. But all of these stories live under and inside the shadow of the Holocaust, and it would be futile, and perhaps a betrayal, to divest them of their context by reading them any other way. Even a story like “Bear Meat” (1961), which recalls a free-spirited prewar trip into the mountains that Levi took with two friends, has its post-Holocaust reverberations. Unequipped for their alpine journey, the boys in the story are soon forced to “eat bear meat,” slang for tasting extreme discomfort. They are lost and exhausted, and barely survive freezing in the night, but the narrator looks back on the experience with dreamy longing. Respect, love, success — “none of these things,” he says, “has the taste of bear meat: the taste of being strong and free, which means free to make mistakes; the taste of feeling young in the mountains, of being your own master, which means master of the world.” By focusing on nostalgia not for prewar pleasure but for prewar pain, Levi shrewdly evokes a time when hardship too had an innocence, when it tempered the human spirit rather than extinguishing it. Jonathan Rosen is the editorial director of Nextbook. His most recent novel is “Joy Comes in the Morning.” REVIEW; Crystallizing Legacy Of Auschwitz Survivor The Art of Self-Effacement BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Surviving Auschwitz, Surrendering To Despair The Chemist and the Holocaust Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/27/books/review/Kamp-t.html?ex=1337918400&en=0fc2f22ef064573a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss The Devil in the Kitchen - Marco Pierre White - Books - Review - 27, 2007 “We have a new boy starting next month,” announces Raymond Blanc, the esteemed chef-owner of a British countryside restaurant called Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons, about a third of the way into “The Devil in the Kitchen,” Marco Pierre White’s memoir. “His name is Marco White and he has worked for Albert Roux, Pierre Koffman and Nico Ladenis. None of them could break him.” DEVIL IN THE KITCHEN Sex, Pain, Madness, and the Making of a Great Chef. By Marco Pierre White with James Steen. Illustrated. 244 pp. Bloomsbury. $24.95. That roster of chefs is probably unknown to you, but as White himself explains, they were the top of the heap in 1980s London, the kings of British fine dining, with difficult temperaments to match. The point being made is that the young White was a hard bloke, notoriously impervious to “bollocking,” his favored term for the ritual abuse heaped upon kitchen inferiors by the man in charge. In time, White got to run his own kitchen, at a place called Harveys, and then several more kitchens after that, ascending in the late ’80s and ’90s to greater culinary and P.R. heights than any of his mentors. He also out-bollocked them all, acquiring a reputation as “the most foul-tempered, most mercurial and most bullying” of British chefs, as Bill Buford described him in last year’s “Heat.” (That book’s main character, Mario Batali, spent a tumultuous few months cooking under White’s thumb at a London pub called the Six Bells in 1983, when both men were callow and unfamous.) White is a relative unknown in America, while a former protégé from whom he is estranged, Gordon Ramsay, has turned into a trans-Atlantic restaurateur and reality-TV star (with, among other shows, “Hell’s Kitchen” on Fox and “The F-Word” on Britain’s Channel 4). Factor in Anthony Bourdain’s aggressively marketed naughty-boy persona and the vogue for elbows-out kitchen machismo on programs like “Iron Chef” and “Top Chef,” and you get the sense that White, whose reign predated all this stuff, is trying to stake his claim as the original gangsta. Certainly the packaging of “The Devil in the Kitchen” — whose British version carries the even more incendiary title “White Slave” — suggests this. The jacket copy labels White “the godfather of rock-star chefs,” and the cover displays a sexy, menacing portrait, by the art photographer Bob Carlos Clarke, of White in his prime: his hair Euro-wavy like a Fiat heir’s, his face elegantly gaunt, his muscular right forearm tensed as he ominously clutches a cleaver. So it’s a relief to find that once you get past all the histrionic buildup, “The Devil in the Kitchen” is a moving, unaffected, delightfully honest book. At times it’s almost sweet. The culinary memoir it most recalls is, of all things, Jacques Pépin’s “Apprentice.” Like Pépin, White grew up in a family that had little but an appreciation of good food. And like “The Apprentice,” White’s book has early moments of heartbreaking privation and loss that give way to a happy momentum — a dawning on the protagonist’s part and, eventually, on that of his bosses, peers and the public, that he is preternaturally gifted at cooking. White, despite his looks and name, is as British as beans on toast. He was born in Leeds, the industrial seat of West Yorkshire, in 1961. His father, Frank, was a local who worked as a deputy chef in various restaurants in the area. His mother, Maria Rosa, was an Italian beauty from Genoa who’d fallen for Frank during a visit to Leeds. Marco, to his chagrin, was the only one of the four White boys to be given an Italian name; his brothers were named Graham, Clive and Craig. His middle name, Pierre, a whimsical suggestion on the part of a Genoese aunt, was an even greater source of embarrassment, kept secret until White revealed it to the restaurant critic for The Sunday Times of London in a 1987 telephone conversation. The critic, Egon Ronay, shortly thereafter gave Harveys a rave review and identified the chef as Marco Pierre White — simultaneously putting the restaurant on the map and rebranding the rough-around-the-edges chef as a posh-sounding Pan-European triple-namer. But before all that could happen, there was the requisite slog of apprenticeships and subordinate positions in kitchens far and wide, starting at the Hotel St. George in Harrogate, a spa town near Leeds. White was all of 16 when he bailed on school and got lost in work, “already hooked on the security of the kitchen.” A dyslexic before dyslexia was widely understood, he found solace in the physicality and sensuality of food prep — he was in his element, whereas at school, he writes, “for a very long time I assumed I was an idiot.” David Kamp, a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, is United States of Arugula.” in Britain Wins Libel Judgment Against The Times Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2006/10/08/books/books-podcast-archive.html Book Review Podcast - 8, 2006 Every week, Book Review Editor Sam Tanenhaus talks to authors, editors, critics and senior editor and best-seller columnist Dwight Garner about new books. The files below are in mp3 format, and instructions for subscribing to the weekly podcast are below. you use iTunes or My Yahoo, click on the icon to take you directly to that podcasting service. 1) Click on the box containing the podcast's link. 2) Copy the link (PC users: right click and select "Copy Shortcut," Mac users: click and hold the mouse button and then select "Copy") 3) Paste the link into the subscription field of your podcasting software. This process may vary depending on your software. Ian McEwan, Chesil Beach”; Amanda Hesser on cookbooks; and Steven Heller on graphic design books. Frank Rich on Don DeLillo; Marco Pierre White, Devil in the Kitchen”; and Jonathan Rosen on Primo Levi. Brent Staples on Ralph Ellison; Debby Applegate on “The Clarks of Cooperstown”; and Ihsan Taylor on “7: The Mickey Mantle Novel”. Christopher Hitchens, Is Not Great”; Julie Just on children’s books; and Tim Weiner on E. Howard Hunt. Robert R. Harris, the deputy editor of the Book Review, on “The Joy of Drinking,” David Shipley, the co-author of “Send”; and Jon Savage, Meghan O'Rourke, James Traub on George Kennan; and Steve Coates on "The Day of the Barbarians." Darcey Steinke, Everywhere”; Jennifer Senior on Dorothy Schiff; Tobin Harshaw on “The Last Mughal.” Edith Grossman on translation; Joel Agee on Elfriede Jelinek; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction. Katie Roiphe on A. M. Homes; Alex Kuczynski on Paulina Porizkova; John Rockwell on Columbia Records. Caroline Weber on “Nancy Cunard”; David Leonhardt on “Radicals for Capitalism”; Jeremy McCarter on Thornton Wilder. Rachel Donadio on the book dealer Glenn Horowitz; Liesl Schillinger on Trezza Azzopardi; Christopher Benfey on "Tales From the Torrid Zone." Joshua Ferris, We Came to the End”; Scott Stossel on biographies; John Leland on Larry McMurtry. Kurt Andersen, Brian Selznick, Invention of Hugo Cabret”; David Orr on poetry in The New Yorker. Lorraine Adams on Hisham Matar; A. O. Scott on Jane Smiley; Jacob Heilbrunn on President Bush’s critics. Liesl Schillinger on Tom McCarthy; Peter Keepnews on George Gershwin; J. D. Biersdorfer on “Buffy the Vampire Slayer.” Mayra Montero, to 'Almendra'"; Joan Acocella, Artists and Two Saints"; Jim Holt on Michael Frayn. Stephen Metcalf on James Fenton; Jay Jennings on Pete Maravich; Ben Schoen on Harry Potter. Michael Thomas, Gone Down”; David Orr on poetry; Sam Tanenhaus on Saul Bellow. Thomas Mallon on Thomas Hardy; Jim Harrison on Karl Shapiro; Dave Marsh on “Something in the Air” Lee Siegel on Norman Mailer; Alan Wolfe on Dinesh D'Souza; Liesl Schillinger on Roddy Doyle. Calvin Trillin, Alice”; Liesl Schillinger on Martin Amis; Neil Genzlinger on Tim Sandlin Robert Stone, Green"; Allan Sloan on P. J. O'Rourke; Dave Itzkoff on Michael Crichton. Vendela Vida, the Northern Lights Erase Your Name"; Stacy Schiff on George III; Steven Coates on the Roman Empire; Rachel Donadio on Nadine Gordimer. Dave Eggers, Is the What”; Gary Hart on Barack Obama; Caroline Weber on the Marquise Du Châtelet; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction. Barry Gewen and Rachel Donadio on war books; Julie Just on children’s books. James Traub, Best of Intentions”; Rachel Donadio on Helen Vendler. How the Notable Books list was chosen; Dave Itzkoff on music books; Neil Genzlinger on "Presidential Doodles." Liesl Schillinger on Thomas Pynchon; Nicolai Ouroussoff on Frank Lloyd Wright; Dennis Overbye on Einstein. John Waters on Tennessee Williams; Steven Heller on Al Goldstein; Rachel Donadio on literary feuds. Maurice Sendak, Jim Windolf on Stephen King; Jonathan Mahler on Rudy Giuliani. David Margolick on David Mamet; Emily Nussbaum on Heidi Julavits; science fiction columnist Dave Itzkoff. A. O. Scott on Richard Ford; Amy Sedaris, Like You"; David Leonhardt on Jacob S. Hacker. Lemony Snicket, End"; Alex Kuczynski, Junkies"; Jim Holt on Richard Dawkins. Caroline Weber, of Fashion"; John Leland on Adam Gopnik; Virginia Heffernan on National Lampoon. Ron Rosenbaum, Shakespeare Wars"; Tom Reiss on Fritz Stern. David Kamp, United States of Arugula"; James Barron, Daniel Mendelsohn, Lost: A Search for Six of Six Million"; science fiction columnist Dave Itzkoff on "Dune"; Rachel Donadio on the "Dummies" books. Frank Rich, Greatest Story Ever Sold"; Lawrence Levi on Nicole Kidman. Nicholas Lemann, Stanley Crouch on the Black Panthers. David Friend, the World Change: The Stories Behind the Images of 9/11"; Stephen Metcalf on Thomas McGuane. Meghan O’Rourke on Claire Messud; Rachel Donadio on the mystery of the missing novel. Dave Itzkoff on James Tiptree, Jr.; Liesl Schillinger on Nora Ephron; Rachel Donadio on writers' colonies. Marisha Pessl, Topics in Calamity Physics"; Julie Just on children's books. Joe Queenan on reading many books at once; Rachel Donadio on Silvio Berlusconi. Jennifer Egan, Keep"; Jennifer Schuessler on the maverick economist Deirdre McCloskey. William C. Rhoden, Million Slaves."; David Margolick on "Fear: Anti-Semitism in Poland After Auschwitz," by Jan T. Gross. Laura Secor on Shirin Ebadi; Barry Gewen on "Überpower: The Imperial Temptation of America," by Josef Joffe. David Kelly on Hurricane Katrina books; Dave Itzkoff on science fiction books. Robert Sullivan, Country"; Dwight Garner on Ishmael Reed. David Kelly on Timothy Leary; Barry Gewen on Noam Chomsky. David Kelly on Daniel Okrent; Robert R. Harris on John McPhee. Stephen Metcalf on Michel Houellebecq; Stephanie Zacharek on Bette Davis. Brent Staples on "Rough Crossings," by Simon Schama; David Kelly on "American Movie Critics." Bruce Handy on Anthony Bourdain; Amanda Hesser on cookbooks. A. O. Scott on the best American fiction of the last 25 years; Rachel Donadio on the book business. Robert R. Harris on "Strange Piece of Paradise," by Terri Jentz; Julie Just on children's books. David Kelly on Roberto Clemente; Henry Alford on selling books on a street corner. Gary Shteyngart, Jennifer Schuessler on lost books. Next Article in Books (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need Article in Books (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Afghan Pushcart - 2001 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/books/review/Bruder-t.html?ex=1338523200&en=8e2d531ae8175885&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Children's Books - Comets, Stars, the Moon, and Mars - Written and illustrated by Douglas Florian - Books - Review - 3, 2007 In space, no one can hear you giggle. Except maybe Douglas Florian. STARS, THE MOON, AND MARS Space Poems and Paintings. Written and illustrated by Douglas Florian. 45 pp. Harcourt. $16. (Ages 5 to 10) More Children's Book Reviews 'The Lost Cities,' by Dale Peck 'Twisted,' by Laurie Halse Anderson 'Different Like Coco,' written and illustrated by Elizabeth Matthews Last Month's Children's Book Reviews Children's Books Special Section: Spring 2007 The poet-painter’s latest book brings warm wit to the outermost reaches of cold, dark space. Twenty short poems paired with paintings on double-page spreads create an interstellar journey, starting with “Skywatch,” an invitation to the pleasures of amateur astronomy. The book travels through our solar system and ends up in the somewhat vaguer territory of comets, black holes and “the Great Beyond.” At the end, there’s a “galactic glossary” and a short bibliography with suggestions for further reading. (Tots demanding “A Brief History of Time”? Blame this book!) Florian’s illustrations depict the marvels of space with luminous texture and detail. Painted in gouache on brown paper bags, they’re littered with a secondary text of rubber-stamped words and collaged with scraps of star maps, photographs and other surprises. Die-cut, circular peepholes give glimpses of stars and planets from neighboring pages. The most engaging verses in “Comets, Stars” serve up planetary facts with a dose of cheeky humor. Take, for example, “Venus”: “Scalding-hot surface, / Nine hundred degrees. / Nothing can live there, / No creatures, / No trees. / Poisonous clouds / Of acid above. / Why was it named for / the goddess of love?” Or “Pluto,” a riff on cosmic injustice: “Pluto was a planet. / But now it doesn’t pass. / Pluto was a planet. / They say it’s lacking mass. / Pluto was a planet. / Pluto was admired. / Pluto was a planet. / Till one day it got fired.” Poor Pluto! It should be noted that these are standout stanzas. Some of Florian’s poems stumble on lumpy rhymes or fall flat (see “The Comet,” which begins: “Ice, rock, dirt / Metal and gas — / Around the sun / A comet may pass.”) Previous books better showcase his lively writing with subjects that are — quite literally — alive. His “Insectlopedia” and “Mammalabilia” offer hilarious observations of animals, while collections like “Winter Eyes” find poignancy in the shared seasonal rituals of human beings. Until we find life on Mars, Florian’s most enjoyable work will probably stay rooted here, on plain old planet Earth. Jessica Bruder, a reporter for The Oregonian, is forthcoming “Burning Book,” about the annual Burning Man festival in Nevada. Next Article in Books (6 of 9) &#x00bb; Need Article in Books (6 of 9) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Shuttle Roars Back - Jigsaw Puzzle Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/books/review/Lethem-t.html?ex=1338523200&en=009f3a2e035bb094&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss On Chesil Beach - Ian McEwan - Books - Review - 3, 2007 They were young, educated, and both virgins on this, their wedding night, and they lived in a time when a conversation about sexual difficulties was plainly impossible. But it is never easy. The geographical distinction that marks Chesil Beach in England is the grading of the shingle — the pebbles, that is — that forms its 18 miles: the pebbles are arranged, by wind and rain, in a spectrum of sizes and textures, so that the beach forms a spatial map of time. Each stone confesses a part of its relation to the whole. Local fishermen brag of the ability to make a blind identification of the original placement, on Chesil Beach, of a given stone. pp. Nan A. Talese/Doubleday. $22. Featured Author: Ian McEwan On This Week's Book Review Podcast: An Interview With Ian McEwan ( First Chapter: ‘On Chesil Beach’ Among the encompassing definitions we could give “the novel” (“a mirror walking down a road,” “a narrative of a certain size with something wrong with it”) is this: a novel is a vast heap of sentences, like stones, arranged on a beach of time. The reader may parse the stones of a novel singly or crunch them in bunches underfoot in his eagerness to cross. These choices generate tension: in my eagerness to learn “what happens,” might I miss something occurring at the level of the sentence? Some experience this as a delicious agony, others distrust it. Our appetite for ’s form of mastery is a measure of our pleasure in fiction’s parallax impact on our reading brains: his narratives hurry us feverishly forward, desperate for the revelation of (imaginary) secrets, and yet his sentences stop us cold to savor the air of another human being’s (imaginary) consciousness. McEwan’s books have the air of thrillers even when, as in “On Chesil Beach,” he seems to have systematically replaced mortal stakes — death and its attendant horrors — with risks of embarrassment, chagrin and regret. ... young, educated ... virgins ... wedding night ... sexual difficulties. The first stone on McEwan’s new beach indulges his radical efficiency with a hook. If McEwan’s first chapters generally ought to be sent, like Albert Pujols’s bats, to the Hall of Fame, then we may agree that in this instance his first sentence is a first chapter of its own, as well as doing extra duty as its host book’s perfect piece of ad copy. (Here’s my spoiler warning: “On Chesil Beach” is far too lean and pure for me to muse on more than a few of its sentences without giving some secrets away. If you’re inspired by the hook above, read the book — it’ll be nearly as quick as reading my review, and more fun.) Then comes a second thought: But it is never easy. With startling ease these five words deepen and complicate the book. Who speaks, and from what historical vantage? The sentence entrenches the facts that precede it — and the facts to follow — in the oceanic retrospect of a ruminative mind, even as they claim to universalize the lovers’ predicament, to forgive them their place in the history of sexual discomfort. With his lips clamped firmly onto hers, he probed the fleshy floor of her mouth, then moved around inside the teeth of her lower jaw to the empty place where three years ago a wisdom tooth had crookedly grown until removed under general anesthesia. This cavity was where her own tongue usually strayed when she was lost in thought. By association, it was more like an idea than a location, a private imaginary place rather than a hollow in her gum, and it seemed peculiar to her that another tongue should be able to go there too. ... He wanted to engage her tongue in some activity of its own, coax it into a hideous mute duet. ... She understood perfectly that this business with tongues, this penetration, was a small-scale enactment, a ritual tableau vivant, of what was still to come, like a prologue before an old play that tells you everything that must happen. The bulk of “On Chesil Beach” consists of a single sex scene, one played, because of the novel’s brevity and accessibility, in something like “real time.” Edward and Florence have retreated, on their wedding night, to a hotel suite overlooking Chesil Beach. Edward wants sex, Florence is sure she doesn’t. The situation is miniature and enormous, dire and pathetic, tender and irrevocable. McEwan treats it with a boundless sympathy, one that enlists the reader even as it disguises the fact that this seeming novel of manners is as fundamentally a horror novel as any McEwan’s written, one that carries with it a David Cronenberg sensitivity to what McEwan calls “the secret affair between disgust and joy.” That horror is located in the distance between two selves, two subjectivities: humans who will themselves to be “as one,” and fail miserably. The horror is in the distance between these sentences, which reside terrifyingly near to one another on the page: Florence: In deciding to be married, she had agreed to exactly this. She had agreed it was right to do this and have this done to her. Edward: When he heard her moan, Edward knew that his happiness was almost complete. The horror further exfoliates in the (utterly normal) physical calamity that ensues: Had she pulled on the wrong thing? Had she gripped too tight? He ... emptied himself over her in gouts, in vigorous but diminishing quantities. ... If his jugular had burst, it could not have seemed more terrible. By this point McEwan hardly needs the specter of murder to convince us that mortal stakes lie behind closed doors. Embarrassment is the death of possibility. If “On Chesil Beach” is a horror novel, it is also as fundamentally a comedy, one with virtual Monty Python overtones: The waiters were arriving with their plates of beef, his piled twice the height of hers. They also brought sherry trifle and cheddar cheese and mint chocolates, which they arranged on a sideboard. After mumbling about the summoning bell by the fireplace — it must be pressed hard and held down — the lads withdrew, closing the door behind them with immense care. Then came the tinkling of the trolley retreating down the corridor, then, after the silence, a whoop or a hoot that could easily have come from the hotel bar downstairs. For need of surviving the folly of his own desire, Edward mustn’t observe the satirical similarity in McEwan’s descriptive language (pressed hard and held down, withdrew, immense care, trolley retreating down the corridor) to the language of pornography, to paraphrases of what will or won’t occur soon in the suite’s four-poster bed: The bed squeaked mournfully when they moved, a reminder of other honeymoon couples who had passed through, all surely more adept than they were. He held down a sudden impulse to laugh at the idea of them, a solemn queue stretching out into the corridor, downstairs to reception, back through time. It was important not to think about them: comedy was an erotic poison. In the painstaking and microscopic one-night structure of “On Chesil Beach,” McEwan advances his exploration of slowness in fiction (early evidenced in “Black Dogs” and “Amsterdam,” and exemplified in the 24-hour time scheme of “Saturday”). This suggests modernist experiment — not only James and Woolf, but even, in its combination with McEwan’s legendarily “forensic” vocabulary (here we’re greeted by the most instrumental pubic hair in the history of fiction), the chilly Alain Robbe-Grillet. But McEwan’s tone is more normative than that of his forebears, and it may be worth asking: Why doesn’t he feel like a “late” modernist? And what does he feel like instead? The answer may lie in the fact that modernism in fiction was partly spurred by the appearance of two great rivals to the novel’s authority, psychoanalysis and cinema — one a rival at plumbing depths, the other at delineating surfaces. McEwan, who comes along later, shrugs at such absolutist contests, and has for that matter already engulfed (most brilliantly in “Enduring Love”) the latest challenger to the novel’s throne: neurology. In fact, McEwan may in retrospect be seen as the quintessential example of the recent integration of scientific interest into fiction, precisely because in McEwan (as opposed to, say, Richard Powers) such matters cease to be in any way remarkable. Similarly, in “Atonement,” McEwan showed a capacity for writing in a more pressured modernist style and then, in the metafictional postlude, to gently amplify it with an air of sympathetic diagnosis. It was as if to say: We want to feel our reading minds bear down on character and consciousness with the intensity of Joyce or Woolf, those stream-of-consciousness titans, but we also want access to the retrospective embrace of our more forgiving and homely hearts. McEwan’s mode is synthesis, his signature the reconciliation of diametric modes — scalpel observation and civilized compassion — into a persuasive and relaxed whole. His style, too easily taken for complacent, is recuperative. His confidence in the authority of his chosen form is absolute, which is why he conveys such dazzling authority of his own. To paraphrase Paul Nelson, as Greil Marcus does in his book “The Old Weird America”: the tests have been passed, and what we’re seeing are the results. Just before dawn he got up and went through to the sitting room and, standing behind his chair, scraped the solidified gravy from the meat and potatoes on his plate and ate them. After that, he emptied her plate — he did not care whose plate it was. Then he ate all the mints, and then the cheese. In the genuinely heartbreaking aftermath of the newlyweds’ disastrous night, our sympathies are in no way undermined by this late return to mutedly sniggering comedy, and body horror too (the solidified gravy recalling those vigorous but diminishing gouts). How Hitchcockian the linkage between food and sex. And what detail could speak more eloquently of the compulsive, cyclical humiliations of the life of our poor minds (stuck inside our bodies forever, until death do us part) than that we might make note of ourselves gobbling the Jonathan Lethem is Don’t Love Me Yet” and six other novels. Next Article in Books (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need Novelist's True Tale Led Him to a Long-Lost Brother Novelists Defend One of Their Own Against a Plagiarism Charge in Britain IDEAS & TRENDS: The P Word -- LITERATURE; Her Life, His Art, Your Call Eyebrows Are Raised Over Passages in a Best Seller Next Article in Books (1 of 9) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/books/review/Queenan-t.html?ex=1338523200&en=88ca4af34cd84264&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Summer Bummer - 3, 2007 The gnashing of teeth never stopped the year my 15-year-old son brought home “A Tale of Two Cities” as his summer reading assignment. According to him, the backbreaking obligation to read Charles Dickens blighted June, ravaged July and obliterated August. Thus, at back-to-school night in September, when his teacher informed parents that their children were gifted, a joy to work with and loved Dickens, I knew she was lying. My kid hated “A Tale of Two Cities.” And he wasn’t alone. as long as anyone can remember, well-meaning pedagogues have been sabotaging summer vacations by forcing high schoolers to read “Lord of the Flies,” “All the King’s Men” and “A Separate Peace.” These books may be the cornerstones of our civilization, but they’re certainly no fun. One reason the average American male reads only one book a year may be the emotional trauma suffered in trying to hack his way through “Wuthering Heights” at the age of 14. I myself have never recovered from going toe-to-toe with “The Return of the Native” as a teenager, not only because Thomas Hardy’s bleak vision and lugubrious prose made me feel bleak and lugubrious, but also because it was my first exposure to the boundless cruelty of which adults are capable. If my teachers had had an ounce of human decency in them they might have assigned us “Macbeth” or Caesar’s “Gallic Wars,” figuring that the merry carnage would at least hold the boys’ interest for a while. Or they could have saddled us with “The Stranger,” which had the mitigating charm of being glib and pretentious and would thus have kept the kids who were obviously going to end up at Bard happy. But by insisting that we write a full report on an uncompromisingly depressing 19th-century novel by a writer who never allowed a single ray of sunshine to brighten his work, the powers-that-be at Cardinal Dougherty High School were merely taunting the student body. “Don’t mess with us, for there is no torment too beastly for us to contemplate,” they seemed to be saying. “If you even once complain about how boring and irrelevant ‘The Return of the Native’ is, next summer we’ll make you read ‘Daniel Deronda.’ Just try us, punks.” Forty years after being pistol-whipped by Thomas Hardy, I am amazed that the summer reading list continues to exist. In a society that has dispensed with every other laudable cultural more, it bewilders me that students still allow adults to wreck their summer vacations by forcing them to feast on the passé cheekiness of “The Catcher in the Rye” or on mind-numbing kitsch like “The Alchemist.” I’m not saying it is necessarily a bad thing that schools require students to read books during the summer: culture, like vitamins, works best when imposed rather than selected. I am simply recording my amazement that in an age when urban high schools use weapons detectors to check for handguns, educators still make kids read “The Red Badge of Courage.” And yet, the system seems to work. Recently, I conducted an informal survey among high school students I know, asking them to evaluate the books they had read over the past few summers. The results floored me. Even though today’s pandering, smorgasbord-style reading lists regularly include works by such non-Nobelists as Dean Koontz and David Baldacci, the kids I talked to had mostly spent the past few summers reading books that could only be described as “good.” Though they were not always bubbling with enthusiasm, they generally used no phrase more abusive than “Well, it was interesting” to describe “Lord of the Flies” or “Beowulf.” One college-bound senior, Margaret Staudter, told me she actually enjoyed “Middlemarch,” even though it took her all summer to finish it. “What I didn’t enjoy was writing all the chapter summaries to prove that I’d read it,” she said. “ ‘Middlemarch’ has something like 86 chapters.” Other students were slightly less upbeat, but still reported enjoying the assigned books, if only because they got to read them in peace without having to examine them in the autopsy style that is the hallmark of the high school literature class. Of course, there was always the possibility that the kids were lying, merely telling an adult what he wanted to hear out of fear that any negative comments would be reported to the authorities. Joe Queenan is Country: A Reluctant Anglophile’s Pilgrimage to the Mother Country.” Next Article in Books (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need Article in Books (5 of 9) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/books/index.html?partner=rssnyt Books - The Review Waxing Philosophical, Booksellers Face the Digital At BookExpo America, the publishing industry’s annual convention, the battering ram of technology was back. Video: At the BookExpo Books of The Times 'No Excuses: Concessions of a Serial Campaigner' Reviewed by JANET MASLIN Welcome to the moral limbo of political consulting, as outlined in sometimes routine, sometimes scorching detail in Robert Shrum’s memoir. The Novelist and the Curious Cabbie A writer hops into a taxi, headed to a Midtown literary festival. But the book talk starts earlier than she expects. A Fly on the Gallery Wall By RUTH LA FERLA Danielle Ganek’s novel, “Lulu Meets God and Doubts Him,” has the art world asking who is who. Voice From the Slums That Refused to Be Silenced Without credential except a high school diploma and courage, Cindy Brown Austin became a byline known to many readers. Reviewed by JONATHAN LETHEM This seeming novel of manners is as much a horror story as any Ian McEwan has written. Featured Author: Ian McEwan 'The Life of Kingsley Amis' Reviewed by A. O. SCOTT The authorized biography of Kingsley Amis, a man who enjoyed life. Read Any Good Books Lately? We asked a handful of writers what books they’ve enjoyed most over the last few months, and why. Their choices — from best sellers to poetry collections to a philosophy of science — are idiosyncratic and instructive. In some travel books, the writer never stops — jetting, cycling, cruising or otherwise gamboling about — often at breakneck, TGV speed. Despite — or perhaps because of — their online competition, cookbooks have never been as sophisticated, thoroughgoing and innovative as they are today. More Cookbooks of Note Few “underground” cartoonists deserve that subterranean title so fully as Kim Deitch, whose work is available in two new collections. Bound miniature books were common in medieval and Renaissance times as illuminated manuscripts, and in the 18th and 19th centuries as everything from alphabet primers to novels. “Where he merely suffered conventional first-night nerves, she experienced a visceral dread, a helpless disgust as palpable as seasickness.” “Many different kinds of people are taking meals and drinking coffee in this late-night Denny's, but she is the only female there alone.” ‘The Ministry of Special Cases’ “They understood very well why the families turned to them with such urgency now. It was 1976 in Argentina. They lived with uncertainty and looming chaos.” ‘Opening Day: The Story of Jackie Robinson’s First Season’ “He was on his way to meet Branch Rickey, president and part owner of the Brooklyn Dodgers, and to learn whether Rickey was ready to end the segregation of the races in big-league baseball.” from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 'A Thousand Splendid Suns,' 'Tearing Down the Wall of Sound,' 'Lulu Meets God and Doubts Him,' by Wendy Williams and Robert Whitcomb This week: Ian McEwan, Chesil Beach”; Amanda Hesser on cookbooks; Steven Heller on graphic design books; and Dwight Garner, senior editor, with best-seller news. Sam Tanenhaus, the editor of the Book Review, is the host. This Week's Book Review Podcast ( Forty years after getting pistol-whipped by Thomas Hardy, I am amazed the summer reading list still exists. 'Comets, Stars, the Moon, and Mars' Reviewed by JESSICA BRUDER With 20 short poems paired with paintings on double-page spreads, Douglas Florian creates an interstellar journey. Also Reviewed This Week: Children's Books Special Section: Spring 2007 The Funny Pages | Sunday Serial This week, Chapter 4: Hugh Westwater — Westie to those who knew him — always thought of the government as “They.” The 10 Best Books of 2006 100 Notable Books of 2006 Best American Fiction Survey Nobel Prize in Literature Book Review Editor Responds Sign Up for the Books Update Receive a selective overview of new book reviews and features every Sunday. SEARCH BOOK REVIEWS SINCE 1981: MOST POPULAR - BOOKS Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Waxing Philosophical, Booksellers Face the Digital Where the Beach Books Are Pirates of the Caribbean Books of The Times: The Man Behind the Curtain: Political Strategy and Spin Sales Barely Up, Book Trade Yearns for Next Blockbuster Way to Give Authors a Lucrative Second Platform Waxing Philosophical, Booksellers Face the Digital Proclaiming Liberalism, and What It Now Means Mark Harris, Author of â€˜Bang the Drum Slowly,' Is Dead at 84 Read Any Good Books Lately? the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Louisiana Heron, Plate 217 What’s new in technology? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? Photos, fine art, books and more. The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/books/review/Scott-t.html The Life of Kingsley Amis - Zachary Leader - Books - Review - 3, 2007 In the years between the publication of his first novel, “Lucky Jim,” in 1954 and his death in 1995, Kingsley Amis enjoyed, to a degree matched by few of his contemporaries, the career of a Major British Author. Toward the end of it, he harvested some of the traditional honors associated with such status: a CBE, a Booker Prize, six-figure advances, knighthood. These he had earned through decades of clockwork productivity, the kind of brisk, un-neurotic industriousness more often associated with Major British Authors than with their American cousins. There was a new novel every couple of years — more than 20 in all — and in the intervals between them a steady outpouring of stories, reviews, poems, opinion pieces and travelogues. As a biographical note at the front of one of Amis’s later books put it, “he has written ephemerally on politics, education, language, films, television, restaurants and drink.” Kar/Camera Press (1958) THE LIFE OF KINGSLEY AMIS Illustrated. 996 pp. Pantheon Books. $39.95. Daniel Farson/Hulton Archive — Getty Images Amis with his first wife, Hilary Bardwell, and their children, from left, Philip, Sally and Martin, 1955. There is something touching about that word “ephemerally,” in which the candid admission that some work is not meant to last rests on the implication that the other work will of course be permanent. Zachary Leader, in the last chapter of his bulky new biography of Amis, is encouraged by his subject’s prospects for literary immortality, noting that a brief posthumous “falling off” of public interest seems to have ended, and that “all Amis’s novels will soon be in print, either in Penguin or Vintage paperbacks.” This may well be the case in England. But though Amis, unlike many of his peers, was quite fond of the United States — at the end of a year of teaching and adultery in Princeton in the ’50s he toyed with the notion of staying here for good, but settled for a return visit a decade later and for making America the setting of “One Fat Englishman” (1963), one of his funniest books — we don’t seem, at the moment, to return his affection. It may be that some of his attitudes appear to be permanently out of step with the sensibilities of the domestic literary class. He wrote about women with the kind of ribald fascination that is frequently taken for misogyny, and in the course of his life his politics moved steadily rightward, from a collegiate flirtation with Communism through a passionless commitment to Labor to a hearty embrace of . (Not quite a literal embrace, but almost: in his “Memoirs” Amis, an ardent connoisseur of feminine beauty, calls her “one of the best-looking women I have ever met.” “This quality is so extreme,” he continued, that “it can trap me for a second into thinking I am looking at a science-fiction illustration of some time ago showing the beautiful girl who has become President of the Solar Federation in the year 2220.”) In any case, Amis’s American comeback has yet to materialize. In the course of preparing this review, I made a fairly thorough search of bookstores in New York (and a few other places as well), and what I found was pretty much limited to “Lucky Jim,” a slender Penguin paperback squeezed against an imposing row of volumes by Kingsley’s younger son, Martin. (The exception was a small used-book store on the Upper West Side, where I found a cache of battered Penguins and Signets that seemed to have been sitting on the shelf, moldering and untouched, for quite some time.) Martin, his father’s loyal son and heir but also an enthusiastic devotee of Nabokov and Bellow (neither of whom Kingsley much admired), is more our type. Martin’s politics, though they don’t always track easily along the left-right continuum, are expressed in the registers of doubt, self-consciousness and regard for nuance that we expect of our liberal-minded literati. His mature novels are thick with ambition, abstraction and ambiguity. Books like “The Information” and “London Fields” are purposefully big and difficult in a way that bespeaks literary importance, a concept the elder Amis fought against with a conviction unusual in a Major British Author. Kingsley was always more inclined to traffic in sharp insights than in grand statements. Plenty of English writers and intellectuals have professed an allergy to theory, generalization and system — a self-administered inoculation against Frenchness, among other maladies — but few can match Amis’s stubborn gusto in insisting on the adequacy of common sense and clear expression. (Early on, he was affiliated with a poetic movement — called the Movement — devoted to those principles and opposed what its adherents, among them Philip Larkin and Thom Gunn, saw as the heavy, foggy legacies of Romanticism and modernism). Nonetheless, Amis did leave behind a credo of sorts, in the form of the following set of rhymed and numbered propositions, the fourth and last in a series of “Poems About Oxford,” composed in 1950: “Here is a list of things I have understood. i. There are only two sorts of things, bad and good. ii. When he gets the good, a man ought to be glad. iii. When he gets the bad, a man ought to be sad. iv. Some of the good are joking, smoking, soaking, And (if you will permit the expression) poking. v. In a bad place these are absent, or even banned. vi. In a good place they are frequent, or ready to hand. vii. And I want as much of them as I can stand.” Next to those seven sentences, Leader’s “Life of Kingsley Amis” stands as a thousand-page Q.E.D., a dogged chronicle of good times and bad as measured in sex, drink, tobacco and mischief (as well as in books, jobs, friendships, marriages, love affairs and changes of political opinion). To read this biography in light of the Oxford poem is to conclude that Amis pretty much got what he wanted. In his later years, as his second marriage (to the novelist Elizabeth Jane Howard) foundered, Amis’s once insatiable libido flagged. Poor health compelled him to give up cigarettes. But his irrepressible, sometimes nasty sense of humor never waned. Nor did his appetite for alcohol. (“Soaking,” we can assume, does not refer to a fondness for lingering in the bathtub.) A. O. Scott is a film critic for The Times. He is writing a book about the American novel since World War II. Next Article in Books (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need Article in Books (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky East Harlem Swimming Pool - 2004 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
