http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6706565.stm | Children 'meet net friends often' 30 May 2007, 23:41 GMT 00:41 'meet net friends often' Children often surf the net behind their parents' backs, research says Many children are meeting up with people they first encountered on the internet - and their parents know nothing about it, a study claims. Web security firm Garlik surveyed hundreds of eight to 15-year-olds and found 20% have met an online friend in person - and one-in-20 do so regularly. Just 7% of parents were aware of their child's behaviour, the study suggested. Garlik, which advises people about data protection on the web, said youngsters were putting themselves in danger. The firm polled 500 young people about their online habits - and 500 parents were asked about their attitudes. It found that 40% of children regularly visit websites that are specifically prohibited by their parents and many give out sensitive information without parental consent. Details divulged include full name (30%), home address (12%), school details (46%) and family photos (9%). One in 10 admitted to being cyber-bullied - but only half said they had spoken to their parents about the ordeal. Despite 90% of parents saying they monitored their offspring's internet usage, more than half of the youngsters admitted to surfing the internet when their parents did not know. Garlik boss Tom Ilube labelled the research a "shocking wake-up call" to British parents. "The web is a wonderful place to explore - but young people continue to make themselves vulnerable by not applying the same caution online as they would in person." Would you consider joining internet websites to see what your children are up to? Let us know using the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. arrested over web bullying 24 Feb 07 | South West Wales Net safety day marked worldwide 06 Feb control of your digital ID 01 Nov 06 | Technology in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6708927.stm backs 31 May 2007, 14:29 GMT 15:29 backs Nuclear reactors need enriched uranium An international scheme to produce a controlled supply of enriched uranium has won support from the US and Russia. The US Congress Foreign Affairs Committee has approved a bill that supports the creation of an global nuclear fuel bank. It would be supervised by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which inspects reactors. The aim is to end uncertainty over states that enrich uranium and if they plan to use it for fuel or weapons. The fuel bank would produce enriched uranium, which is a necessary ingredient in nuclear power reactors, keeping stocks of it for sale. Countries that are building nuclear reactors would not have to make their own uranium fuel - they could simply buy it from the bank. The US decision comes less than two weeks after Russia and Kazakhstan signed an inter-governmental agreement with the IAEA to consider setting up such a facility in Siberia. Concerns over nuclear proliferation have most recently been raised over Iran, which is building a reactor in Bushehr and has a uranium enrichment facility in Natanz. Co-sponsor of the bill, US Democrat Tom Lantos, stated, "Those who truly seek to develop nuclear power solely for peaceful means will jump at the chance to take part in this fuel bank." Uranium is usually enriched using hundreds or thousands of centrifuges - cylindrical rotors moving at high-speed in an almost friction-free environment - that slowly separate uranium from its ore. Countries will simply not agree to it Frank Barnaby, security expert But because similar equipment is also used to enrich uranium for nuclear bombs, it is often difficult to be certain about the true intentions of states that build them. According to the IAEA, Iran has constructed more than 1,300 centrifuges at Natanz. Iran insists that its nuclear ambitions are peaceful, but the international community has imposed sanctions on the country over fears that it wants to develop a nuclear weapon. A guaranteed uranium access to Iran could provide a possible solution to the political dilemma. It would remove the need for Iran to enrich uranium for fuel at all. It would also allow the IAEA to more accurately measure how much nuclear fuel is being used, making it easier to spot if any uranium is diverted for non-peaceful purposes. However, Frank Barnaby, a security expert at the Oxford Research Group, an independent security charity, does not believe it will work: "Countries will simply not agree to it," he said. "Iran says it has an unalienable right to enrich uranium to fuel nuclear power reactors, and there is no reason for it to choose to use the bank." A recent paper published by the IAEA said that the be supervised by the IAEA but "financed on a commercial basis or by the [IAEA] Member States". The US has committed $50m of funding to the bank, matching $50 million that was offered in 2006 by the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a US-based charity. Following an agreement in May 2007 between Kazakhstan and Russia, a site for the now being considered in the remote city of Irkutsk, in Eastern Siberia. There is already a large uranium enrichment plant in the area. Kazakhstan has about 20 per cent of the world's uranium ore and it reportedly has plans to triple production to 15,000 tonnes by the end of the decade. The proposed Irkutsk will be discussed at a meeting of the IAEA's Board of Governors in June 2007. Despite these commitments by the US and Russia, security expert Frank Barnaby says that other countries are likely to oppose the plans. He said: "The UK and Japan have historically made objections to the idea of a they see enriching uranium as a secret operation and any international efforts to create a bank will mean information will leak, which threatens their security." to push for new Iran sanctions West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme ElBaradei pushes 'third way' Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report International Atomic Energy Agency
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707267.stm | 31 May 2007, 09:32 GMT 10:32 TV offers a bridge between a computer and a television The popular YouTube video website will soon be available directly through Apple's TV set-top box. Apple says that starting from mid-June, Apple TV users will stream YouTube content onto their televisions. At present, Apple TV users can only access content stored in Apple's iTunes music and video library system. The move may raise copyright issues for Apple, as YouTube faces a number of infringement lawsuits. YouTube is currently being sued for $1bn (£506m) by MTV-owner Viacom, after users uploaded thousands of Viacom-owned videos to the service without its permission. However, following Apple's announcement of the tie-up with YouTube, Viacom struck a conciliatory tone. "We're always vigilant about protecting our copyrights," said a Viacom spokeswoman. "But we would welcome the opportunity to license our content to Apple as we do with all distributors." Apple added that YouTube members would also onto their YouTube accounts on Apple TV. Apple also announced it would be selling a version of Apple TV with much more storage capacity - 160GB, four times that of the current $299 model - for $399. TV - beauty or beast? 22 Mar 'a few weeks' late 27 Feb site 'blocked' in Morocco 29 YouTube founder's success secrets 22 fights Viacom legal bid 01 economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6354259.stm | Telescope boost to UK astronomy 30 May 2007, 12:25 GMT 13:25 boost to UK astronomy Science reporter, BBC News Vista was a payment in kind for the UK joining Eso On a dusty mountaintop in the Atacama desert of northern Chile, a large telescope funded and led by Britain is taking shape. The £36m facility is gradually being assembled near the Chilean peak of Cerro Paranal. Vista (Visible and Infrared Survey Telescope for Astronomy) will be part of the European Southern Observatory (Eso). Eso is a research organisation comprising 13 member countries - including the UK. The telescope will use infrared wavelengths to detect objects that are too distant or too cool to be seen using the visible spectrum. Vista's task has been likened to looking for needles in astronomical haystacks. Its solution is to combine a telescope with a moderately large (4m) mirror to detect distant objects, with a large field of view, so it can survey a large area. Most telescopes of 4m or above have a narrow field of view; Vista has the widest field of view for a telescope of its size. Getting the best quality pictures from a relatively wide field telescope required a careful balancing of different factors when it came to designing the telescope. 4m telescope will survey the Southern Hemisphere sky Widest field of view for a telescope of its size Near infrared camera with 67 million pixels of mean size Interior of camera must operate in a vacuum at -200C Camera weighs about as much as an Indian elephant Vista's design, which uses two mirrors, produces a large field of view but at the expense of some residual image distortions. These distortions can be corrected by lenses. But if too much bending of light is done by lenses, they make different wavelengths of light focus in slightly different places. This blurs the resulting image. Mirrors, on the other hand, bend all wavelengths of light the same. So Vista's designers came to the following compromise: most of the light coming into the telescope would be bent by the mirrors. Residual distortions would then be corrected by a series of three lenses inside the telescope's camera. "Vista is very much a system. You won't get a nice image from the telescope alone, you need the telescope and the camera working together," says Jim Emerson, Vista project leader, from Queen Mary, University of London. See how Vista compares to the Very Large Telescope Vista's 3m-long, 2.9 tonne camera - the biggest of its kind in the world - is another impressive feat of engineering. "It's a huge beast," says Kim Ward, Vista's camera manager, "It has the largest array of infrared detectors and everything about it is just massive. Part of this has come about through having to make it earthquake-proof." The camera may be the biggest of its type anywhere The Vista site is on an active seismic zone. Thus, the camera had to be more sturdy than would normally be necessary. It must weak and medium-strength earthquakes and survive largely intact through strong ones. The sensitive infrared detectors are required to work at a temperature of -200C, so the camera has a cryogenic system to keep the interior cool; it must also operate in a vacuum. "We have pumps and coolers attached around the camera to maintain the temperature and the vacuum," says Kim Ward. The camera, he says, is a bit "like an inside-out spacecraft." Vista will through the smog of interstellar dust clouds that obscure much of our galaxy. It is designed to detect very faint galaxies and will very cool cosmic objects that do not emit much visible light. The data will tell astronomers a lot more about these objects. But in some cases, the telescope will identify faint astronomical bodies for follow-up observations using other observatories such as the Hubble Space Telescope. In one of the first surveys planned for Vista, astronomers will look at an area of the sky known as the Cosmos Field. Eagle Nebula: In the infrared (L) and at Hubble's visible wavelengths By looking deep into the Cosmos Field, Vista will also be looking a long way back in time, to the Universe as it was in its early years. The aim will be to understand how galaxies - like the Milky Way - are assembled from their constituent parts. "Vista will be looking for old galaxies in two square degrees of sky. The idea is that galaxies are assembled bit-by-bit. Galaxies accrete more and more matter with time," says Jim Emerson. "So galaxies should look reasonably chaotic a long time ago. As other pieces get added, they should start to look statistically more like galaxies do nowadays." At the other end of the spectrum of tasks Vista will carry out is a project called the Vista Hemisphere Survey. This will aim to survey the entire southern hemisphere. By contrast with the Cosmos Field survey, which goes very deep but only surveys a small volume of the sky, the Hemisphere Survey will not peer very deep into space, but will survey a large volume of sky. The Atacama is one of the best places to do astronomy in the world Astronomers will carry out lots of short exposures of one part of the sky and then carry on to the next part. Even so, Jim Emerson explains: "It will be about four magnitudes deeper than the previous all-sky survey in the infrared. And it will be in more wavelength bands." How objects in the sky look at different wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum will help astronomers classify them. They will then hone in on rare objects. "You can do a lot of science on these objects if you can pin down their properties precisely. You can also find exciting new objects such as very high-Redshift quasars," says Jim Emerson. Quasars are compact, luminous objects thought to be powered by supermassive black holes and are thought to have played an important role in the evolution of the Universe. Those at the highest "Redshifts" are the most distant, and therefore the youngest, class of quasars. "You don't know where rare objects are to start with. So you have to observe the whole hemisphere to find these things, and you need to find several as finding one doesn't give you a statistical sample of these objects." Other Vista projects include: an effort to map the "bulge" of the Milky Way which will help give a better idea of our galaxy's shape a study of the Milky Way's galactic plane, which will search for star-forming regions a survey of the Magellanic Clouds, the two nearest galaxies to the Milky Way using the colours of galaxies in order to measure their distances and to map their 3-D distributions These surveys will take about five years to complete. Some projects can only be undertaken at certain times of the year. Others are dependent on having certain atmospheric conditions. "All the projects should produce science results that help answer questions we already have. But the most exciting thing may be something we have no idea about that we discover not having set out to discover it," says Professor Emerson. When the UK was negotiating to join Eso, Vista became an in-kind payment towards the subscription for joining. All the crucial elements of the telescope are now in place except for the main mirror. The Russian company polishing the primary mirror needed more time to complete the task, delaying its arrival in Chile. "Normally, telescope mirrors are subtly curved. This one looks a bit more like a saucer. It is curvier than usual and comes up a lot at the edges," says Professor Emerson. "No one has polished a mirror this big of this shape before." The secondary mirror is now complete and in Chile. The telescope's primary mirror will be finished in July. It will be flown to Chile on an Antonov transport plane from Moscow. It is hoped that Vista will its first pictures towards the end of 2007. VISTA'S WIDE FIELD OF VIEW Telescopes of 4m or above generally have a narrow field of view. The 8.2m Very Large Telescope (VLT) falls into this category The 4m Vista telescope is an exception. It will have the widest field of view for a telescope of its size, allowing it to survey a large area sets new heights for astronomy 07 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Record mirror for Euro telescope 07 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Skies open for UK astronomy 09 Jul 02 | Sci/Tech Grid helps science go sky-high 02 May 02 | Sci/Tech In Pictures: Very Large Telescope Satellite Image of Vista Site, Google Maps Science & Technology Facilities Council (STFC) meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6704013.stm privacy policy 'is vague' 31 May 2007, 08:12 GMT 09:12 privacy policy 'is vague' Technology editor, BBC News website Google's online influence worries some privacy campaigners Elements of Google's privacy policy are "vague" and need to be made more precise, the firm's global privacy counsel has told BBC News. Peter Fleischer said the company "could do better" with policy statements that explained why user information was sometimes shared with third parties. Mr Fleischer said Google would never give "identifiable personal data" to third parties, including advertisers. Google's privacy policy has come under scrutiny in recent weeks. A working party of European Information Commissioners has written to Google to ask the firm to explain why it holds on to users' web history data for up to two years. Google has said it would respond by the end of June. There is also growing concern from privacy campaigners over the implication of Google's proposed purchase of advertising firm DoubleClick. The ad company helps link up advertising agencies, marketers and web site publishers hoping to put adverts online. Campaigners argue that the two firms will have an unprecedented amount of information on users' web-surfing habits. In an interview with the BBC News website, Mr Fleischer said: "The general principle is that we are going to maintain the privacy of our users; that is pretty fundamental. There are some very limited circumstances in which we would share user data with third parties "We will never transfer to third parties, including advertisers, any personally identifiable information about our users. "Our goal is to be as transparent as possible with our users when it comes to privacy. That transparency builds trust and we will succeed or fail on whether our users trust us." Mr Fleischer said its privacy policy was written to be as "clear and simple as possible". But he admitted two elements of the policy statement needed attention. When we use third parties to assist us in processing your personal information, we require that they comply with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures. We may also share information with third parties in limited circumstances, including when complying with legal process, preventing fraud or imminent harm, and ensuring the security of our network and services. "There is a constant process of trying to be clear with language and improve notices," said Mr Fleischer. "We ought to better than that now that you have drawn my attention to that particular clause," he said, referring to the first clause. After being questioned on the second element, he said: "It is kind of vague. I wish we could do better on that one." Mr Fleischer said Google shared data with third parties when it outsourced a part of its operation. "The clause essentially says that if we hire outsourcing functions to provide something like virus scanning or security models, we at Google would still be practices for our end users." He said the clause also covered the movement of data between Google Inc, the US-registered company, and its affiliates, such as Google in the UK. "There are some very limited circumstances in which we would share user data with third parties. One of them would be if we were under a legal order from the police to do so. He added: "Very rarely there will be a case where the police say someone is in actual danger and needs our help. "We have had a case when someone was kidnapped and Gmail was being used for a hostage ransom demand. These are incredibly rare situations. "We are not going to hide behind procedures." Mr Fleischer said the company would also share user data with third-party security experts if Google was the subject of a massive hacker attack. "This is purely hypothetical but we might need to share user data with security experts to find out who is hacking, and where is this coming from." In a statement a Google spokesman said: "We write our privacy policy so that it is simple and easy to understand. "Our users' privacy is a priority for us, and we're continually reviewing our privacy policy clauses to make them even more transparent. We welcome all comments and feedback that helps us with this." could face in-depth probe 29 Google to list top 100 searches 22 founder's success secrets 22
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6639417.stm up to Facebook fears 9 May 2007, 13:54 GMT 14:54 up to Facebook fears Internet law professor Michael Geist says attempts to block social media sites such as Facebook are misguided. Facebook has seen rapid growth Facebook, the enormously popular social media website, has attracted a remarkable amount of attention in recent weeks. On the heels of student suspensions for posting negative comments about school officials on Facebook, and the integral role the social media site played for student expression during the horrific events at Virginia Tech, the Province of Ontario in Canada last week announced that it was banning access to the site for thousands of bureaucrats and elected officials. While the merits of Facebook are open to debate - some love it, others hate it, and many simply do not understand what the fuss is about - there should be no debating the fact that many of these policy responses are unnecessary, knee-jerk reactions to an emerging social phenomenon that is poorly understood. Facebook launched in February 2004 as a social network site for Harvard University. The site allowed users to chat, post photos and comments, as well as connect with fellow students with common interests through online groups. The site quickly grew, first to other universities and later to high schools. By last summer, it was used by more than 30,000 educational institutions in the US, Canada, and other English-speaking countries, with roughly eight million users. Last September, Facebook opened its virtual doors to the general public by permitting registrations from people in hundreds of geographic areas. The decision, which created some apprehension among the Facebook community, caused the site to explode in popularity. Facebook is used amongst groups of friends Today, there are 21 million Facebook users worldwide and the site is adding 100,000 new users each week. The site has achieved remarkable success in Britain, where it was recently ranked as the twentieth most visited website in the country, up twenty-fold from the prior year. While the number of UK Facebook users was estimated at 200,000 last September, by March 2007 that number had grown to more than 1.3 million registered users. In fact, more than 40 U.K. universities have signed up to Facebook, leading to some criticism that the site "institutionalises gossip". Although most people associate Facebook with social activities, the site can be very useful in mobilising interest around political and policy issues. For example, six weeks ago, Amber MacArthur, a Canadian television reporter, launched a new group called Canadians for Net Neutrality. Today the group has more than 1,100 participants, sharing ideas and concerns about whether Canadian Internet service providers are treating content and applications in an equitable manner. The recent backlash against Facebook has generally on centred around two concerns - derogatory comments and workplace productivity - ironically missing the real sources of concern such as the privacy impact of posting deeply personal information. Many Facebook users openly comment about issues of concern. That naturally includes students posting thoughts about fellow students and teachers or about supervisors at their part-time jobs. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities In recent months, an Ottawa grocery chain fired several of its employees after company officials discovered negative comments on Facebook, while several Ontario schools have suspended students for posting "offensive" comments about school officials. While companies are obviously entitled to establish the ground rules for employee behaviour, it is hard to see how schools can justify suspending students for simply speaking their minds. It is certainly appropriate to take action against cyber-bullying, however students exercising legitimate free speech should not be punished simply because the speech occurs in a semi-private online forum rather than in a semi-private discussion on school grounds out of earshot of school officials. In fact, educators should seize these opportunities to teach students about both the benefits and drawbacks of social media, while encouraging them to use the tools in positive ways. Facing up to fears The Ontario government ban against Facebook is even more puzzling. Premier Dalton McGuinty indicated that the government does not see how it adds value to the workplace, yet the decision will only further isolate the government from the very public that it serves. Is there really no benefit to have government policy makers access and participate in the hundreds of groups discussing Ontario health care issues? Would it be so bad for elected officials to actually engage with their constituents in a social network environment? The attempts to block Facebook or punish users for stating their opinions fails to appreciate that social network sites are simply the internet generation's equivalent of the town hall, the school cafeteria, or the workplace water cooler - the place where people come together to exchange both ideas and idle gossip. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities. The answer does not lie in banning Facebook or the other emerging social media sites, but rather in facing up to Facebook fears and learning to use these new tools to engage and educate. Michael Geist holds the Canada Research Chair in Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of Law. He can be reached at mgeist@uottawa.ca or online at www.michaelgeist.ca. MICHAEL GEIST COLUMN Push for open access to research US copyright lobby out-of-touch Vista gives a view of a new world Helping users help themselves History lessons for YouTube Internet privacy and Icann Switch off sought for TV treaty Free speech, libel and the net
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6704003.stm May 2007, 13:03 GMT 14:03 firm recommends using other services for important mail Spammers have knocked out the e-mail service for many of the customers of internet service provider (ISP) Tiscali, the firm has said. Users e-mails have not been delivered to their intended recipients as other ISPs block e-mail traffic from Tiscali. Tiscali has not said how many of its 1.8m UK customers are affected by the outage which started eight days ago. It said engineers were "taking urgent action" to block spammers using its e-mail service to send messages. A statement on the Tiscali website read: "We have been targeted by spammers using our service, which in turn has meant other ISPs have taken measures to block mail sent by Tiscali. This is not affecting all delivery addresses. Some mail continues to be delivered as normal." The ISP said it was currently installing new hardware and updating its spam filters. Spamhaus is certainly not seeing anything that would justify major blocking "This work will be complete today. It is likely to take seven to 10 days for these changes to take full effect across receiving e-mail providers." But some spam experts have expressed surprise that Tiscali has said its current problems are the result of spammers. "There have been major problems in the past," said Richard Cox of Spamhaus, a not-for-profit organisation of IT professionals that tracks spammers and publishes free real time databases of offending addresses used by many big businesses and ISPS. "Spamhaus is certainly not seeing anything that would justify major blocking, unless it is being targeted at one or two specific networks." The organisation uses a network of anonymous e-mail addresses to "trap" spam. "These are on most spammers lists so as soon as spam starts hitting those traps we know its happening," he explained. Spamhaus does not use services such as hotmail, Yahoo or AOL for their spam traps so if these alone were being targeted they would not appear on the Spamhaus radar. Mr Cox speculated that the problem could be the result of a technical failure at Tiscali, something the ISP denies. Tiscali advises customers sending important mail to use an alternative free email service. crime 'big fear' for Britons Net crime to hit homes hard Help is at hand for web security Hackers reveal what they do and how much money they make. How to decode the digital clues in junk mail What exactly did we find in our honeypot trap? Part one of our honeypot online investigation Advice on how to keep safe when online A guide to the terms and buzzwords of hi-tech crime Take our quiz to see how much you know about avoiding computer problems
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6685253.stm freedoms do we want online? 23 May 2007, 16:50 GMT 17:50 freedoms do we want online? We can't take an all or nothing approach to online expression, argues Bill Thompson. Burma was one of the countries criticised for web censorship The idea that the internet is an unregulated space where free expression is the guiding principle and we can all talk openly took another blow last week with the latest report on net filtering from the Open Net Initiative. Their study found many countries were filtering websites and email, and some were blocking new services such as net telephony. China, Burma, Tunisia and Iran were among the countries mentioned, and the overall message was that things are getting worse for the open internet. I had been discussing many of the same issues just a few days earlier at a seminar at Wolfson College, Cambridge, where I am spending a term as a Press Fellow. My colleague, Chinese journalist and blogger Michael Anti, pointed out that although political expression is tightly controlled in China the government is not really interested in other aspects of people's lives, while here in the UK we can talk about democracy but other forms of speech are restricted for legal and commercial reasons. He has a point. The ONI report only looked at official, state-sanctioned filtering, and it did not consider the situation in the UK or US where most controls are imposed by companies trying to protect their reputation or achieve competitive advantage. Limits on free speech My ability to say what I want on private forums is limited. Yahoo censored Flikr comments Here we see numerous examples of limits on free speech. Apple has repeatedly sued journalists for revealing details of its product plans. A Romanian blogger has been threatened with prosecution by a US internet radio station for revealing how to link directly to its audio streams and bypass the media player it wants you to use. Respected online publisher Jon Newton has been sued over the comments added to an article he posted on the popular p2pnet news site. Yahoo! has been roundly criticised for removing comments made on the Flickr photosharing site it owns after photographer Rebekka Gudleifsdóttir complained that a commercial company was selling prints of her photos without permission. And we recently saw the fiasco that resulted when the group that manages copy protection for the new generation of high capacity disks tried to use the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act to stop people publishing a code that with the right software can be used to decrypt some HD-DVD titles. These sorts of restrictions happen all the time, and rarely involve direct government action, as we can see on the Chilling Effects website where there are copies of thousands of 'cease and desist' letters from lawyers trying to remove web content, including some from the BBC. Most of us recognise that there are limits on what we can say or do, limits imposed to benefit the wider society and which serve us all, even if they sometimes seem onerous. The point is not that speech is controlled but the openness with which it is done, the way that limits are discussed and agreed on and the ease with which unreasonable restrictions to freedom of expression can be challenged. There is also a difference between censorship imposed by governments and the restrictions put in place by people or organisations for themselves. Yahoo has been criticised for removing comments on Flikr Yahoo! says that it made a mistake in taking down Rebekka Gudleifsdóttir's posting, but in fact if the discussion went against the terms of use and included abusive comments then it is under no obligation to host them. Just as I can't expect to be allowed to wander into your home and shout at you because you spend your time watching trash TV instead of reading improving books, so my ability to say what I want on private forums is limited. The same principle applies to Slashdot, Digg, The Guardian or any other organisation that hosts content. Every day I delete dozens of spam comments from my blog and I don't consider that to be unreasonable censorship. If the controls are too onerous then the discussion will move elsewhere. If the policy is inconsistently applied or seen to be biased then that will itself form the basis of public discussion, perhaps in other forums. I'm happy to allow anyone to decide for themselves what they will or will not publish on their own site or service, but it gets a lot more dangerous when we allow individuals or governments to use legal remedies to stop other people speaking out, as with the furore over the HD-DVD key. And the limits on speech that are acceptable when imposed by private companies as part of their terms and conditions would not be acceptable when imposed by governments. In an open society we want to be as permissive as possible, limiting free expression only when it is absolutely necessary, and debating such limitations openly. But we should not expect the rules to be straightforward or universal. We need to take a more nuanced approach to this fundamental issue, one which allows that different nations, cultures and groups will have different standards, and one which also respects the difference between public and private provision of spaces for publication and debate. Unfortunately, as I've pointed out in the past, nearly all of the open spaces we occupy online are in fact privately controlled and managed. The real danger in the coming years might not be that governments look at what China has achieved with its 'Great Firewall' and decide to emulate it, but that the companies behind our online gathering places become more conservative, more limiting and more repressive, while we find we have nowhere else to go. Perhaps it's time for the Open Net Initiative to have a look at filtering policies at Facebook, Bebo and MySpace as well as Burma, Iran and Saudi Arabia. Bill Thompson is an independent journalist and regular commentator on the BBC World Service programme Digital Planet. myself through the net The evolution of a giant Watching art imitate life Concern as net hits data limits 'I was wrong about Steve Jobs' Who gains from Wikileaks? The political power of the network The mash-up future of the web 'Why I don't believe Steve Jobs' For want of a file, the net was lost Re-writing the rules of online ID Yahoo 'censored' Flickr comments 18 Press Fellowship Programme
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6704029.stm tool tracks city graffiti 30 May 2007, 11:35 GMT 12:35 tool tracks city graffiti Some people call it art, others vandalism US cities are battling the problem of vandalism head on with a hi-tech system that analyses and tracks graffiti and its perpetrators. In the US, cleaning up graffiti is estimated to cost about $10bn (£5bn) per year. Rather than simply obliterate the graffiti, the system keeps a permanent record of it which allows police to compile a database of similar daubings. This surveillance of graffiti has angered some privacy advocates. Graffiti Tracker, the brainchild of graduate student and crime analyst Timothy Kephart, uses global positioning systems (GPS), digital photography and computer databases to track and catch graffiti artists. The system - dubbed Graffiti Analysis/Intelligence Tracking System (GAITS) - takes pictures of graffiti, using GPS cameras that record the date, time and exact location. It then extracts information from the photographs and provides reports of each incident of graffiti which can be matched against other graffiti stored on a computer database in an effort to track down the perpetrator. Keeping a database of known graffiti means offenders can be charged with multiple counts of vandalism. The ability to locate where graffiti occurs means work can also be tracked. In one case, the system showed that graffiti was located in close proximity to a suspect's house, the park he used and the school he attended, providing compelling evidence for the police. Mr Kephart devised the system after he analysed more than 450 gang graffiti photographs for his master's thesis. He identified a series of trends, particularly relating to gangs which US police authorities believe are responsible for much of the graffiti in cities such as Los Angeles. It is estimated that there are 720 street gangs in Los Angeles with some 40,000 members. British PM Tony Blair helps the graffiti clean-up Much of graffiti contained coded messages to rival gangs as well as codes to identify the particular gang responsible for it, Kephart discovered. So far, 20 cities in California, Nevada and Nebraska have bought the system and Mr Kephart expects sales to double in the next 12 months. While the authorities regard graffiti as vandalism, others are not so sure the high-tech system is the best way to tackle the problem. "I have never heard anything so hilarious," said Simon Davies, head of Privacy International. "The money they are spending on this should be reinvested in urban regeneration, using graffiti as an art form. "Surveillance tracking destroys self-esteem and there are more effective solutions to urban dysfunction," he said. paint to help deter graffiti 29 Teenage boys warned over graffiti 22 Graffiti art encouraged at castle 15 and West New graffiti planned for station 11
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6701855.stm win for Alzheimer's tool 29 May 2007, 17:07 GMT 18:07 win for Alzheimer's tool The winning entry is designed to help people with Alzheimer's An online screensaver and social network for people with Alzheimer's and their carers has won a Microsoft-led software design prize. "Memories are made of this" was designed by Said Dajani, website manager for the Alzheimer's Society. The tool includes a screen saver which carers could use as a memory prompt, uploading text, images and video clips. Microsoft's engineers will now turn the concept into reality, with the aim of implementing the system. DesignIT is an annual competition to champion the work of software designers and reverse the stereotypes of IT managers as "geeks". Professionals were invited to submit plans for computer systems which demonstrated creativity as well as "tackling social and human interest problems experienced by charities". "It was a public vote - so that was very gratifying," said Mr Dajani. "More and more people are coming across dementia, affecting them and their family. "It is estimated that one million people will have a form of dementia by 2025." Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia. It is a physical disease which causes the chemistry and structure of the brain to change, leading to the death of brain cells. Mr Dajani said the idea behind the design was to help carers and those with Alzheimer's to remember important facts about their lives. "The screensaver is a virtual scrapbook - a carer and person with dementia can work together to upload pictures, video, text. "We have found that an offline scrapbook has been of real benefit to both and we want to extend this to the digital world. It puts people in contact with their memories." Artists interpreted the designs for an exhibition. Here, Annabel Emson was inspired by a plan centred on reducing CO2 emissions The second part of the scheme is the creation of a social network for people with dementia. "There is definitely a need for a shared, secured network so that people with dementia can talk with each other," said Mr Dajani. "This will mean people with dementia will not have to deal with complicated log-ins but could chat to other members of the network who are online at the same time." As part of the scheme artists have been working to interpret the designs for an exhibition in London this week to showcase the work. "We're very honoured. The artist came in to see us and to find out what it means to have dementia," said Mr Dajani. The other finalists included two plans to help people understand their carbon footprint, a website to help track whale sightings around the UK and an anti-bullying site. 'diet link' analysed 19 Alzheimer's drug's impact hailed 14 Loneliness link with Alzheimer's 06 Feb 07 | Health
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6700691.stm to create less clumsy robots 29 May 2007, 13:19 GMT 14:19 to create less clumsy robots The robot being developed by the German Aerospace Centre The race to create more human-like robots stepped up a gear this week as scientists in Spain set about building an artificial cerebellum. The end-game of the two-year project is to implant the man-made cerebellum in a robot to make movements and interaction with humans more natural. The cerebellum is the part of the brain that controls motor functions. Researchers hope that the work might also yield clues to treat cognitive diseases such as Parkinson's. The research, being undertaken at the Department of Architecture and Computing Technology at the University of Granada, is part of a wider European project dubbed Sensopac Sensopac brings together electronic engineers, physicists and neuroscientists from a range of universities including Edinburgh, Israel and Paris with groups such as the German Aerospace Centre. It has 6.5m euros of funding from the European Commission. Its target is to incorporate the cerebellum into a robot designed by the German Aerospace Centre in two year's time. The work at the University of Granada is concentrating on the design of microchips that incorporate a full neuronal system, emulating the way the cerebellum interacts with the human nervous system. Implanting the man-made cerebellum in a robot would allow it to manipulate and interact with other objects with far greater subtlety than industrial robots can currently manage, said researcher Professor Eduardo Ros Vidal, who is co-ordinating work at the University of Granada. "Although robots are increasingly more important to our society and have more advanced technology, they cannot yet do certain tasks like those carried out by mammals," he said. "We have been talking about humanoids for years but we do not yet see them on the street or use the unlimited possibilities they offer us," he added. One use of such robots would be as home-helps for disabled people. The aim is robots with a subtle touch The next stage of the Sensopac project is to develop an artificial skin for robots, making them look more human-like as well as being information-sensitive in the same way as human skin is. This system is being developed by the German Aerospace Centre in collaboration with other research groups. The ambitious project is just one of many attempts to create more human-like robots. Another European research project - dubbed Feelix Growing - has been given 2.3m euros to develop robots that can learn from humans and respond socially and emotionally. The medical community is making huge strides in the use of man-made parts for failures in the human brain. Last year US scientists implanted a sensor in a paralysed man's brain that has enabled him to control objects by using his thoughts alone. The fast pace of current robotics research has prompted deeper questions about how androids would be integrated into human society. Some have called for a code of ethics for robots while others question how humans will cope in the face of machine intelligence. future poses hard questions 24 Apr age poses ethical dilemma 07 Mar of the consumer robots 11 Jan could demand legal rights 21 Dec 06 | Technology Introducing humans version 2.0 24 Oct 06 | Technology
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6703249.stm | Microsoft unveils table computer 30 May 2007, 08:07 GMT 09:07 unveils table computer The computer does away with the need for a keyboard Microsoft has unveiled a new touch-sensitive coffee table-shaped computer called "Surface". Designed to do away with the need for a traditional mouse and keyboard, users can instead use their fingers to operate the computer. Also designed to interact with mobile phones placed on the surface, Microsoft says it will initially sell the unit to corporate customers. These will include hotels, casinos, phone stores and restaurants. So-called "multi-touch" interfaces - which allow the user to move several fingers on a screen to manipulate data, rather than relying on a mouse and menus - have been making waves in tech circles for some time. We envision a time when surface computing technologies will be pervasive, from tabletops and counters to the hallway mirror Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer One of the most hotly-awaited examples is Apple's iPhone, which is scheduled to be released in June. Hewlett-Packard has also been looking at expanding multi-touch technology, in addition to leading research scientists such as Jeff Han of New York University's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. With a 30-inch screen, Surface will initially sell for between $5,000 and $10,000 (£2,525-£5,050). However, Microsoft said it aimed to produce cheaper versions for homes within three to five years. "We see this as a multi-billion dollar category, and we envision a time when surface computing technologies will be pervasive, from tabletops and counters to the hallway mirror," said Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer. Microsoft says small groups of people will each Surface machine simultaneously. They will be first deployed in November in Sheraton hotels, Harrah's casinos, T-Mobile stores, and numerous restaurants. The computer giant has had a mixed record recently with new consumer products. While its Xbox games console has been a success, its Zune music player continues to lag far behind Apple's iPod. AND AUDIO NEWS A hands-free version of Microsoft's table computer Microsoft buys ad firm for $6bn 18 Microsoft's Vista sales power up 16 The evolution of a giant 02 wins AT&T patent battle 30 Apr 07 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK launches a tool designed to make it easier for computer users to access online information offline. Google searches web's dark side Google Earth turns spotlight on Darfur popular YouTube video website will soon be available directly through Apple's TV set-top box. man nicknamed the 'spam king' for allegedly sending out millions of junk e-mails is arrested in the US. EMI strikes a deal with YouTube US backs Google privacy policy 'is vague' IN THE NEWS Malaysia seeks new Irish sniffer dogs to root out pirate DVDs This group is something of an experiment by someone who isn't quite sure social networking is for him The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones sets up a technology Facebook page Clash of the titans? Microsoft's Bill Gates and Apple's Steve Jobs talk technology X-ray technology is revolutionising patient care VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS New 'watch' device can translate words Campaign to axe plastic bags Actor's support for whaling ban Bush calls for climate action More Video / Audio News Watch the latest edition of Click Children 'meet net friends often' Hi-tech tool tracks city graffiti Microsoft unveils table computer Telescope boost to UK astronomy Music site Last.fm bought by CBS Design win for Alzheimer's tool Move to create less clumsy robots Which freedoms do we want online? Facing up to Facebook fears to make friends on Facebook Designing mobiles for the world Too old for networking? Wi-fi and RFID used for tracking How the network can bring politicians and citizens closer Our intrepid social networker is suddenly very popular The BBC's flagship technology lifestyle TV programme ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707397.stm | eBay buys recommendations website 31 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 buys recommendations website EBay has $3.5bn in cash and has been on a spending spree Internet auction site eBay has bought StumbleUpon, a website that recommends other websites, for $75m (£38m). The deal means eBay will get access to almost 2.5 million registered users, who recommend sites to each other. Users get search results that are based on their profiles, which the site says gives them more relevant results than a regular search engine. EBay had $3.5bn in cash last month and has been on an acquisition spree buying firms such as Shopping.com and StubHub. StumbleUpon was founded in 2001 by three Canadian software engineers in Calgary. It is free for users and generates revenue through advertising, although users may pay an annual fee to avoid seeing any adverts. StumbleUpon's founders and managers will become eBay employees and eBay's Michael Buhr will become its general manager. 2.0 wonders: StumbleUpon 29 Mar demands eBay ticket bar 14 Man spots stolen goods on eBay 20 Apr 07 | North West Wales EBay and Tom in China partnership 20 Dec 06 | Business EBay to buy Skype in $2.6bn deal 12 Sep 05 | Business eBay's 10-year rise to world fame 02 Sep 05 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6706565.stm | Children 'meet net friends often' May 2007, 23:41 GMT 00:41 UK 'meet net friends often' Children often surf the net behind their parents' backs, research says Many children are meeting up with people they first encountered on the internet - and their parents know nothing about it, a study claims. Web security firm Garlik surveyed hundreds of eight to 15-year-olds and found 20% have met an online friend in person - and one-in-20 do so regularly. Just 7% of parents were aware of their child's behaviour, the study suggested. Garlik, which advises people about data protection on the web, said youngsters were putting themselves in danger. The firm polled 500 young people about their online habits - and 500 parents were asked about their attitudes. It found that 40% of children regularly visit websites that are specifically prohibited by their parents and many give out sensitive information without parental consent. Details divulged include full name (30%), home address (12%), school details (46%) and family photos (9%). One in 10 admitted to being cyber-bullied - but only half said they had spoken to their parents about the ordeal. Despite 90% of parents saying they monitored their offspring's internet usage, more than half of the youngsters admitted to surfing the internet when their parents did not know. Garlik boss Tom Ilube labelled the research a "shocking wake-up call" to British parents. "The web is a wonderful place to explore - but young people continue to make themselves vulnerable by not applying the same caution online as they would in person." Would you consider joining internet websites to see what your children are up to? Let us know using the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. arrested over web bullying 24 Feb 07 | South West Wales Net safety day marked worldwide 06 Feb control of your digital ID 01 Nov 06 | Technology anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6708927.stm | US backs nuclear fuel bank plan May 2007, 14:29 GMT 15:29 UK backs nuclear fuel bank plan Nuclear reactors need enriched uranium An international scheme to produce a controlled supply of enriched uranium has won support from the US and Russia. The US Congress Foreign Affairs Committee has approved a bill that supports the creation of an global nuclear fuel bank. It would be supervised by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which inspects reactors. The aim is to end uncertainty over states that enrich uranium and if they plan to use it for fuel or weapons. The fuel bank would produce enriched uranium, which is a necessary ingredient in nuclear power reactors, keeping stocks of it for sale. Countries that are building nuclear reactors would not have to make their own uranium fuel - they could simply buy it from the bank. The US decision comes less than two weeks after Russia and Kazakhstan signed an inter-governmental agreement with the IAEA to consider setting up such a facility in Siberia. Concerns over nuclear proliferation have most recently been raised over Iran, which is building a reactor in Bushehr and has a uranium enrichment facility in Natanz. Co-sponsor of the bill, US Democrat Tom Lantos, stated, "Those who truly seek to develop nuclear power solely for peaceful means will jump at the chance to take part in this fuel bank." Uranium is usually enriched using hundreds or thousands of centrifuges - cylindrical rotors moving at high-speed in an almost friction-free environment - that slowly separate uranium from its ore. Countries will simply not agree to it Frank Barnaby, security expert But because similar equipment is also used to enrich uranium for nuclear bombs, it is often difficult to be certain about the true intentions of states that build them. According to the IAEA, Iran has constructed more than 1,300 centrifuges at Natanz. Iran insists that its nuclear ambitions are peaceful, but the international community has imposed sanctions on the country over fears that it wants to develop a nuclear weapon. A nuclear fuel bank that guaranteed uranium access to Iran could provide a possible solution to the political dilemma. It would remove the need for Iran to enrich uranium for fuel at all. It would also allow the IAEA to more accurately measure how much nuclear fuel is being used, making it easier to spot if any uranium is diverted for non-peaceful purposes. However, Frank Barnaby, a security expert at the Oxford Research Group, an independent security charity, does not believe it will work: "Countries will simply not agree to it," he said. "Iran says it has an unalienable right to enrich uranium to fuel nuclear power reactors, and there is no reason for it to choose to use the bank." A recent paper published by the IAEA said that the nuclear fuel bank would be supervised by the IAEA but "financed on a commercial basis or by the [IAEA] Member States". The US has committed $50m of funding to the bank, matching $50 million that was offered in 2006 by the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a US-based charity. Following an agreement in May 2007 between Kazakhstan and Russia, a site for the nuclear fuel bank is now being considered in the remote city of Irkutsk, in Eastern Siberia. There is already a large uranium enrichment plant in the area. Kazakhstan has about 20 per cent of the world's uranium ore and it reportedly has plans to triple production to 15,000 tonnes by the end of the decade. The proposed nuclear fuel bank in Irkutsk will be discussed at a meeting of the IAEA's Board of Governors in June 2007. Despite these commitments by the US and Russia, security expert Frank Barnaby says that other countries are likely to oppose the plans. He said: "The UK and Japan have historically made objections to the idea of a nuclear fuel bank because they see enriching uranium as a secret operation and any international efforts to create a bank will mean information will leak, which threatens their security." to push for new Iran sanctions West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel Iran nuclear official 'detained' Solana urges US to talk to Iran EU agrees Iran nuclear sanctions What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme ElBaradei pushes 'third way' Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report International Atomic Energy Agency to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707267.stm | Apple TV to show YouTube content May 2007, 09:32 GMT 10:32 UK TV to show YouTube content Apple TV offers a bridge between a computer and a television The popular YouTube video website will soon be available directly through Apple's TV set-top box. Apple says that starting from mid-June, Apple TV users will be able to automatically stream YouTube content onto their televisions. At present, Apple TV users can only access content stored in Apple's iTunes music and video library system. The move may raise copyright issues for Apple, as YouTube faces a number of infringement lawsuits. YouTube is currently being sued for $1bn (£506m) by MTV-owner Viacom, after users uploaded thousands of Viacom-owned videos to the service without its permission. However, following Apple's announcement of the tie-up with YouTube, Viacom struck a conciliatory tone. "We're always vigilant about protecting our copyrights," said a Viacom spokeswoman. "But we would welcome the opportunity to license our content to Apple as we do with all distributors." Apple added that YouTube members would also be able to log onto their YouTube accounts on Apple TV. Apple also announced it would be selling a version of Apple TV with much more storage capacity - 160GB, four times that of the current $299 model - for $399. TV - beauty or beast? 22 Mar TV to be 'a few weeks' late 27 Feb site 'blocked' in Morocco 29 YouTube founder's success secrets 22 YouTube fights Viacom legal bid 01 economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6354259.stm | Telescope boost to UK astronomy May 2007, 12:25 GMT 13:25 UK boost to UK astronomy Science reporter, BBC News Vista was a payment in kind for the UK joining Eso On a dusty mountaintop in the Atacama desert of northern Chile, a large telescope funded and led by Britain is taking shape. The £36m facility is gradually being assembled near the Chilean peak of Cerro Paranal. Vista (Visible and Infrared Survey Telescope for Astronomy) will be part of the European Southern Observatory (Eso). Eso is a research organisation comprising 13 member countries - including the UK. The telescope will use infrared wavelengths to detect objects that are too distant or too cool to be seen using the visible spectrum. Vista's task has been likened to looking for needles in astronomical haystacks. Its solution is to combine a telescope with a moderately large (4m) mirror to detect distant objects, with a large field of view, so it can survey a large area. Most telescopes of 4m or above have a narrow field of view; Vista has the widest field of view for a telescope of its size. Getting the best quality pictures from a relatively wide field telescope required a careful balancing of different factors when it came to designing the telescope. 4m telescope will survey the Southern Hemisphere sky Widest field of view for a telescope of its size Near infrared camera with 67 million pixels of mean size Interior of camera must operate in a vacuum at -200C Camera weighs about as much as an Indian elephant Vista's design, which uses two mirrors, produces a large field of view but at the expense of some residual image distortions. These distortions can be corrected by lenses. But if too much bending of light is done by lenses, they make different wavelengths of light focus in slightly different places. This blurs the resulting image. Mirrors, on the other hand, bend all wavelengths of light the same. So Vista's designers came to the following compromise: most of the light coming into the telescope would be bent by the mirrors. Residual distortions would then be corrected by a series of three lenses inside the telescope's camera. "Vista is very much a system. You won't get a nice image from the telescope alone, you need the telescope and the camera working together," says Jim Emerson, Vista project leader, from Queen Mary, University of London. See how Vista compares to the Very Large Telescope Vista's 3m-long, 2.9 tonne camera - the biggest of its kind in the world - is another impressive feat of engineering. "It's a huge beast," says Kim Ward, Vista's camera manager, "It has the largest array of infrared detectors and everything about it is just massive. Part of this has come about through having to make it earthquake-proof." The camera may be the biggest of its type anywhere The Vista site is on an active seismic zone. Thus, the camera had to be more sturdy than would normally be necessary. It must be able to shrug-off weak and medium-strength earthquakes and survive largely intact through strong ones. The sensitive infrared detectors are required to work at a temperature of -200C, so the camera has a cryogenic system to keep the interior cool; it must also operate in a vacuum. "We have pumps and coolers attached around the camera to maintain the temperature and the vacuum," says Kim Ward. The camera, he says, is a bit "like an inside-out spacecraft." Vista will be able to see through the smog of interstellar dust clouds that obscure much of our galaxy. It is designed to detect very faint galaxies and will be able to detect very cool cosmic objects that do not emit much visible light. The data will tell astronomers a lot more about these objects. But in some cases, the telescope will identify faint astronomical bodies for follow-up observations using other observatories such as the Hubble Space Telescope. In one of the first surveys planned for Vista, astronomers will look at an area of the sky known as the Cosmos Field. Eagle Nebula: In the infrared (L) and at Hubble's visible wavelengths By looking deep into the Cosmos Field, Vista will also be looking a long way back in time, to the Universe as it was in its early years. The aim will be to understand how galaxies - like the Milky Way - are assembled from their constituent parts. "Vista will be looking for old galaxies in two square degrees of sky. The idea is that galaxies are assembled bit-by-bit. Galaxies accrete more and more matter with time," says Jim Emerson. "So galaxies should look reasonably chaotic a long time ago. As other pieces get added, they should start to look statistically more like galaxies do nowadays." At the other end of the spectrum of tasks Vista will carry out is a project called the Vista Hemisphere Survey. This will aim to survey the entire southern hemisphere. By contrast with the Cosmos Field survey, which goes very deep but only surveys a small volume of the sky, the Hemisphere Survey will not peer very deep into space, but will survey a large volume of sky. The Atacama is one of the best places to do astronomy in the world Astronomers will carry out lots of short exposures of one part of the sky and then carry on to the next part. Even so, Jim Emerson explains: "It will be about four magnitudes deeper than the previous all-sky survey in the infrared. And it will be in more wavelength bands." How objects in the sky look at different wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum will help astronomers classify them. They will then hone in on rare objects. "You can do a lot of science on these objects if you can pin down their properties precisely. You can also find exciting new objects such as very high-Redshift quasars," says Jim Emerson. Quasars are compact, luminous objects thought to be powered by supermassive black holes and are thought to have played an important role in the evolution of the Universe. Those at the highest "Redshifts" are the most distant, and therefore the youngest, class of quasars. "You don't know where rare objects are to start with. So you have to observe the whole hemisphere to find these things, and you need to find several as finding one doesn't give you a statistical sample of these objects." Other Vista projects include: an effort to map the "bulge" of the Milky Way which will help give a better idea of our galaxy's shape a study of the Milky Way's galactic plane, which will search for star-forming regions a survey of the Magellanic Clouds, the two nearest galaxies to the Milky Way using the colours of galaxies in order to measure their distances and to map their 3-D distributions These surveys will take about five years to complete. Some projects can only be undertaken at certain times of the year. Others are dependent on having certain atmospheric conditions. "All the projects should produce science results that help answer questions we already have. But the most exciting thing may be something we have no idea about that we discover not having set out to discover it," says Professor Emerson. When the UK was negotiating to join Eso, Vista became an in-kind payment towards the subscription for joining. All the crucial elements of the telescope are now in place except for the main mirror. The Russian company polishing the primary mirror needed more time to complete the task, delaying its arrival in Chile. "Normally, telescope mirrors are subtly curved. This one looks a bit more like a saucer. It is curvier than usual and comes up a lot at the edges," says Professor Emerson. "No one has polished a mirror this big of this shape before." The secondary mirror is now complete and in Chile. The telescope's primary mirror will be finished in July. It will be flown to Chile on an Antonov transport plane from Moscow. It is hoped that Vista will be able to take its first pictures towards the end of 2007. VISTA'S WIDE FIELD OF VIEW Telescopes of 4m or above generally have a narrow field of view. The 8.2m Very Large Telescope (VLT) falls into this category The 4m Vista telescope is an exception. It will have the widest field of view for a telescope of its size, allowing it to survey a large area sets new heights for astronomy 07 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Record mirror for Euro telescope 07 Aug 06 | Science/Nature Skies open for UK astronomy 09 Jul 02 | Sci/Tech Grid helps science go sky-high 02 May 02 | Sci/Tech In Pictures: Very Large Telescope Satellite Image of Vista Site, Google Maps Science & Technology Facilities Council (STFC) meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6704013.stm | Google privacy policy 'is vague' May 2007, 08:12 GMT 09:12 UK privacy policy 'is vague' Technology editor, BBC News website Google's online influence worries some privacy campaigners Elements of Google's privacy policy are "vague" and need to be made more precise, the firm's global privacy counsel has told BBC News. Peter Fleischer said the company "could do better" with policy statements that explained why user information was sometimes shared with third parties. Mr Fleischer said Google would never give "identifiable personal data" to third parties, including advertisers. Google's privacy policy has come under scrutiny in recent weeks. A working party of European Information Commissioners has written to Google to ask the firm to explain why it holds on to users' web history data for up to two years. Google has said it would respond by the end of June. There is also growing concern from privacy campaigners over the implication of Google's proposed purchase of advertising firm DoubleClick. The ad company helps link up advertising agencies, marketers and web site publishers hoping to put adverts online. Campaigners argue that the two firms will have an unprecedented amount of information on users' web-surfing habits. In an interview with the BBC News website, Mr Fleischer said: "The general principle is that we are going to maintain the privacy of our users; that is pretty fundamental. There are some very limited circumstances in which we would share user data with third parties "We will never transfer to third parties, including advertisers, any personally identifiable information about our users. "Our goal is to be as transparent as possible with our users when it comes to privacy. That transparency builds trust and we will succeed or fail on whether our users trust us." Mr Fleischer said its privacy policy was written to be as "clear and simple as possible". But he admitted two elements of the policy statement needed attention. When we use third parties to assist us in processing your personal information, we require that they comply with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures. We may also share information with third parties in limited circumstances, including when complying with legal process, preventing fraud or imminent harm, and ensuring the security of our network and services. "There is a constant process of trying to be clear with language and improve notices," said Mr Fleischer. "We ought to be able to do better than that now that you have drawn my attention to that particular clause," he said, referring to the first clause. After being questioned on the second element, he said: "It is kind of vague. I wish we could do better on that one." Mr Fleischer said Google shared data with third parties when it outsourced a part of its operation. "The clause essentially says that if we hire outsourcing functions to provide something like virus scanning or security models, we at Google would still be practices for our end users." He said the clause also covered the movement of data between Google Inc, the US-registered company, and its affiliates, such as Google in the UK. "There are some very limited circumstances in which we would share user data with third parties. One of them would be if we were under a legal order from the police to do so. He added: "Very rarely there will be a case where the police say someone is in actual danger and needs our help. "We have had a case when someone was kidnapped and Gmail was being used for a hostage ransom demand. These are incredibly rare situations. "We are not going to hide behind procedures." Mr Fleischer said the company would also share user data with third-party security experts if Google was the subject of a massive hacker attack. "This is purely hypothetical but we might need to share user data with security experts to find out who is hacking, and where is this coming from." In a statement a Google spokesman said: "We write our privacy policy so that it is simple and easy to understand. "Our users' privacy is a priority for us, and we're continually reviewing our privacy policy clauses to make them even more transparent. We welcome all comments and feedback that helps us with this." could face in-depth probe 29 Google to list top 100 searches 22 YouTube founder's success secrets 22 to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6639417.stm | Facing up to Facebook fears May 2007, 13:54 GMT 14:54 UK up to Facebook fears Internet law professor Michael Geist says attempts to block social media sites such as Facebook are misguided. Facebook has seen rapid growth Facebook, the enormously popular social media website, has attracted a remarkable amount of attention in recent weeks. On the heels of student suspensions for posting negative comments about school officials on Facebook, and the integral role the social media site played for student expression during the horrific events at Virginia Tech, the Province of Ontario in Canada last week announced that it was banning access to the site for thousands of bureaucrats and elected officials. While the merits of Facebook are open to debate - some love it, others hate it, and many simply do not understand what the fuss is about - there should be no debating the fact that many of these policy responses are unnecessary, knee-jerk reactions to an emerging social phenomenon that is poorly understood. Facebook launched in February 2004 as a social network site for Harvard University. The site allowed users to chat, post photos and comments, as well as connect with fellow students with common interests through online groups. The site quickly grew, first to other universities and later to high schools. By last summer, it was used by more than 30,000 educational institutions in the US, Canada, and other English-speaking countries, with roughly eight million users. Last September, Facebook opened its virtual doors to the general public by permitting registrations from people in hundreds of geographic areas. The decision, which created some apprehension among the Facebook community, caused the site to explode in popularity. Facebook is used amongst groups of friends Today, there are 21 million Facebook users worldwide and the site is adding 100,000 new users each week. The site has achieved remarkable success in Britain, where it was recently ranked as the twentieth most visited website in the country, up twenty-fold from the prior year. While the number of UK Facebook users was estimated at 200,000 last September, by March 2007 that number had grown to more than 1.3 million registered users. In fact, more than 40 U.K. universities have signed up to Facebook, leading to some criticism that the site "institutionalises gossip". Although most people associate Facebook with social activities, the site can be very useful in mobilising interest around political and policy issues. For example, six weeks ago, Amber MacArthur, a Canadian television reporter, launched a new group called Canadians for Net Neutrality. Today the group has more than 1,100 participants, sharing ideas and concerns about whether Canadian Internet service providers are treating content and applications in an equitable manner. The recent backlash against Facebook has generally on centred around two concerns - derogatory comments and workplace productivity - ironically missing the real sources of concern such as the privacy impact of posting deeply personal information. Many Facebook users openly comment about issues of concern. That naturally includes students posting thoughts about fellow students and teachers or about supervisors at their part-time jobs. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities In recent months, an Ottawa grocery chain fired several of its employees after company officials discovered negative comments on Facebook, while several Ontario schools have suspended students for posting "offensive" comments about school officials. While companies are obviously entitled to establish the ground rules for employee behaviour, it is hard to see how schools can justify suspending students for simply speaking their minds. It is certainly appropriate to take action against cyber-bullying, however students exercising legitimate free speech should not be punished simply because the speech occurs in a semi-private online forum rather than in a semi-private discussion on school grounds out of earshot of school officials. In fact, educators should seize these opportunities to teach students about both the benefits and drawbacks of social media, while encouraging them to use the tools in positive ways. Facing up to fears The Ontario government ban against Facebook is even more puzzling. Premier Dalton McGuinty indicated that the government does not see how it adds value to the workplace, yet the decision will only further isolate the government from the very public that it serves. Is there really no benefit to have government policy makers access and participate in the hundreds of groups discussing Ontario health care issues? Would it be so bad for elected officials to actually engage with their constituents in a social network environment? The attempts to block Facebook or punish users for stating their opinions fails to appreciate that social network sites are simply the internet generation's equivalent of the town hall, the school cafeteria, or the workplace water cooler - the place where people come together to exchange both ideas and idle gossip. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities. The answer does not lie in banning Facebook or the other emerging social media sites, but rather in facing up to Facebook fears and learning to use these new tools to engage and educate. Michael Geist holds the Canada Research Chair in Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of Law. He can be reached at mgeist@uottawa.ca or online at www.michaelgeist.ca. MICHAEL GEIST COLUMN Push for open access to research US copyright lobby out-of-touch Vista gives a view of a new world Helping users help themselves History lessons for YouTube Internet privacy and Icann Switch off sought for TV treaty Free speech, libel and the net to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6704003.stm | May 2007, 13:03 GMT 14:03 UK firm recommends using other services for important mail Spammers have knocked out the e-mail service for many of the customers of internet service provider (ISP) Tiscali, the firm has said. Users e-mails have not been delivered to their intended recipients as other ISPs block e-mail traffic from Tiscali. Tiscali has not said how many of its 1.8m UK customers are affected by the outage which started eight days ago. It said engineers were "taking urgent action" to block spammers using its e-mail service to send messages. A statement on the Tiscali website read: "We have been targeted by spammers using our service, which in turn has meant other ISPs have taken measures to block mail sent by Tiscali. This is not affecting all delivery addresses. Some mail continues to be delivered as normal." The ISP said it was currently installing new hardware and updating its spam filters. Spamhaus is certainly not seeing anything that would justify major blocking "This work will be complete today. It is likely to take seven to 10 days for these changes to take full effect across receiving e-mail providers." But some spam experts have expressed surprise that Tiscali has said its current problems are the result of spammers. "There have been major problems in the past," said Richard Cox of Spamhaus, a not-for-profit organisation of IT professionals that tracks spammers and publishes free real time databases of offending addresses used by many big businesses and ISPS. "Spamhaus is certainly not seeing anything that would justify major blocking, unless it is being targeted at one or two specific networks." The organisation uses a network of anonymous e-mail addresses to "trap" spam. "These are on most spammers lists so as soon as spam starts hitting those traps we know its happening," he explained. Spamhaus does not use services such as hotmail, Yahoo or AOL for their spam traps so if these alone were being targeted they would not appear on the Spamhaus radar. Mr Cox speculated that the problem could be the result of a technical failure at Tiscali, something the ISP denies. Tiscali advises customers sending important mail to use an alternative free email service. crime 'big fear' for Britons Net crime to hit homes hard Help is at hand for web security Hackers reveal what they do and how much money they make. How to decode the digital clues in junk mail What exactly did we find in our honeypot trap? Part one of our honeypot online investigation Advice on how to keep safe when online A guide to the terms and buzzwords of hi-tech crime Take our quiz to see how much you know about avoiding computer problems to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6707333.stm | US arrests internet 'spam king' May 2007, 10:49 GMT 11:49 UK arrests internet 'spam king' Mr Soloway allegedly sent millions of e-mails on hijacked computers A man nicknamed the "spam king" for allegedly sending out millions of junk e-mails has been arrested in the US. Robert Soloway, 27, was arrested in Seattle, Washington, after being indicted on charges of mail fraud, identity theft and money laundering. Mr Soloway has pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Prosecutors say Mr Soloway became one of the world's biggest spammers, using computers secretly infected with orders to send out millions of his e-mails. Such computers are known as "zombies" because their owners often have no idea they have been hijacked for another purpose. According to prosecutors, Mr Soloway was responsible for tens of millions of unsolicited e-mails promoting his own company between November 2003 and May 2007. He is said to have frequently changed the web address of his internet marketing business to avoid being caught. A US lawyer said Mr Soloway was the first person to be prosecuted for sending out spam e-mails using federal laws against identity theft. Prosecutors want to seize the sum of $773,000 (£391,000) that Mr Soloway is said to have made from his firm. If convicted of all the charges, he also faces a fine of $250,000 (£126,500) and a maximum prison term of 65 years. plunder Plusnet e-mail 22 US crackdown on market spammers 09 Mar 07 | Business Spam surge drives net crime spree 26 Dec 06 | Technology Anatomy of a spam e-mail 11 Oct 06 | Technology TV to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6685253.stm | Which freedoms do we want online? May 2007, 16:50 GMT 17:50 UK freedoms do we want online? We can't take an all or nothing approach to online expression, argues Bill Thompson. Burma was one of the countries criticised for web censorship The idea that the internet is an unregulated space where free expression is the guiding principle and we can all talk openly took another blow last week with the latest report on net filtering from the Open Net Initiative. Their study found many countries were filtering websites and email, and some were blocking new services such as net telephony. China, Burma, Tunisia and Iran were among the countries mentioned, and the overall message was that things are getting worse for the open internet. I had been discussing many of the same issues just a few days earlier at a seminar at Wolfson College, Cambridge, where I am spending a term as a Press Fellow. My colleague, Chinese journalist and blogger Michael Anti, pointed out that although political expression is tightly controlled in China the government is not really interested in other aspects of people's lives, while here in the UK we can talk about democracy but other forms of speech are restricted for legal and commercial reasons. He has a point. The ONI report only looked at official, state-sanctioned filtering, and it did not consider the situation in the UK or US where most controls are imposed by companies trying to protect their reputation or achieve competitive advantage. Limits on free speech My ability to say what I want on private forums is limited. Yahoo censored Flikr comments Here we see numerous examples of limits on free speech. Apple has repeatedly sued journalists for revealing details of its product plans. A Romanian blogger has been threatened with prosecution by a US internet radio station for revealing how to link directly to its audio streams and bypass the media player it wants you to use. Respected online publisher Jon Newton has been sued over the comments added to an article he posted on the popular p2pnet news site. Yahoo! has been roundly criticised for removing comments made on the Flickr photosharing site it owns after photographer Rebekka Gudleifsdóttir complained that a commercial company was selling prints of her photos without permission. And we recently saw the fiasco that resulted when the group that manages copy protection for the new generation of high capacity disks tried to use the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act to stop people publishing a code that with the right software can be used to decrypt some HD-DVD titles. These sorts of restrictions happen all the time, and rarely involve direct government action, as we can see on the Chilling Effects website where there are copies of thousands of 'cease and desist' letters from lawyers trying to remove web content, including some from the BBC. Most of us recognise that there are limits on what we can say or do, limits imposed to benefit the wider society and which serve us all, even if they sometimes seem onerous. The point is not that speech is controlled but the openness with which it is done, the way that limits are discussed and agreed on and the ease with which unreasonable restrictions to freedom of expression can be challenged. There is also a difference between censorship imposed by governments and the restrictions put in place by people or organisations for themselves. Yahoo has been criticised for removing comments on Flikr Yahoo! says that it made a mistake in taking down Rebekka Gudleifsdóttir's posting, but in fact if the discussion went against the terms of use and included abusive comments then it is under no obligation to host them. Just as I can't expect to be allowed to wander into your home and shout at you because you spend your time watching trash TV instead of reading improving books, so my ability to say what I want on private forums is limited. The same principle applies to Slashdot, Digg, The Guardian or any other organisation that hosts content. Every day I delete dozens of spam comments from my blog and I don't consider that to be unreasonable censorship. If the controls are too onerous then the discussion will move elsewhere. If the policy is inconsistently applied or seen to be biased then that will itself form the basis of public discussion, perhaps in other forums. I'm happy to allow anyone to decide for themselves what they will or will not publish on their own site or service, but it gets a lot more dangerous when we allow individuals or governments to use legal remedies to stop other people speaking out, as with the furore over the HD-DVD key. And the limits on speech that are acceptable when imposed by private companies as part of their terms and conditions would not be acceptable when imposed by governments. In an open society we want to be as permissive as possible, limiting free expression only when it is absolutely necessary, and debating such limitations openly. But we should not expect the rules to be straightforward or universal. We need to take a more nuanced approach to this fundamental issue, one which allows that different nations, cultures and groups will have different standards, and one which also respects the difference between public and private provision of spaces for publication and debate. Unfortunately, as I've pointed out in the past, nearly all of the open spaces we occupy online are in fact privately controlled and managed. The real danger in the coming years might not be that governments look at what China has achieved with its 'Great Firewall' and decide to emulate it, but that the companies behind our online gathering places become more conservative, more limiting and more repressive, while we find we have nowhere else to go. Perhaps it's time for the Open Net Initiative to have a look at filtering policies at Facebook, Bebo and MySpace as well as Burma, Iran and Saudi Arabia. Bill Thompson is an independent journalist and regular commentator on the BBC World Service programme Digital Planet. myself through the net The evolution of a giant Watching art imitate life Concern as net hits data limits 'I was wrong about Steve Jobs' Who gains from Wikileaks? The political power of the network The mash-up future of the web 'Why I don't believe Steve Jobs' For want of a file, the net was lost Re-writing the rules of online ID Yahoo 'censored' Flickr comments 18 Wolfson Press Fellowship Programme to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6708375.stm | May 2007, 13:32 GMT 14:32 UK maps from Google could be available offline Google has launched a tool designed to make it easier for computer users to use online applications offline. One of the key limitations of web services such as e-mail, word processing and calendars, is that they require a net connection to function. Gears allows access to online data and applications inside the web browser when offline. The tool was launched at Google's global developer day, with 5,000 coders attending seminars worldwide. Google Gears is an open source plug-in for browsers, which the firm hopes will lead to the creation of new web standards. The firm wants many of the people attending its developers conference to use the Gears tools, which are free to use, to adapt their own applications for offline usage. Using Gears, online data that is usually held on web servers can be stored offline on an individual's computer, and then synchronised when the user logs back on to the web. Chris Prince, the engineer leading the Gears project, told the conference in London: "We want a seamless experience between offline and online." "This fills a gap for us," said Jeff Huber, a vice president of engineering at Google. "The internet is great, but you can't always be plugged in to it." Initially, Google's RSS feed reader application - for reading news and blogs - will work offline, but the company plans to add other programmes, Mr Huber said. A word processor with less functionality than WordPad isn't going to upset anyone's business model, online or off Michael Gartenberg, Jupiter Research He said Google's e-mail, calendar, word processing and spreadsheet programmes were logical candidates for offline access. Gears works in most of the leading web browsers, such as Firefox and Internet Explorer, and will soon work with Safari and Opera. "With Google Gears we're tackling a key limitation of the browser in order to make it a stronger platform for deploying all types of applications and enabling a better user experience in the cloud," Google chairman Eric Schmidt said in a statement. He added: "We believe strongly in the power of the community to stretch this new technology to the limits of what's possible and ultimately emerge with an open standard that benefits everyone." Brendan Eich, chief technology officer at Mozilla corporation, the organisation behind the Firefox browser, said: "This announcement is a significant step forward for web applications." Some commentators have seen the move as a strike at Microsoft's dominance in the area of productivity applications. But Jupiter Research analyst Michael Gartenberg struck a more cautious note about the new technology. Writing in his blog, he said: "Folks are missing the point. "Yes, offline functionality is required but it isn't in itself a game changer. A word processor with less functionality than WordPad isn't going to upset anyone's business model, online or off." Google also used the conference to announce Google Mapplets, a tool giving developers the power to customise Google maps with mini-applications. News stories, weather, housing prices, and crime figures could be combined with maps to provide a more geographical representation of data. Speaking at the London-based conference, Ed Parsons, Google's geospatial technologist, said the firm wanted developers to help build a "geo-web". Google searches web's dark side 11 Google Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6704029.stm | Hi-tech tool tracks city graffiti May 2007, 11:35 GMT 12:35 UK tool tracks city graffiti Some people call it art, others vandalism US cities are battling the problem of vandalism head on with a hi-tech system that analyses and tracks graffiti and its perpetrators. In the US, cleaning up graffiti is estimated to cost about $10bn (£5bn) per year. Rather than simply obliterate the graffiti, the system keeps a permanent record of it which allows police to compile a database of similar daubings. This surveillance of graffiti has angered some privacy advocates. Graffiti Tracker, the brainchild of graduate student and crime analyst Timothy Kephart, uses global positioning systems (GPS), digital photography and computer databases to track and catch graffiti artists. The system - dubbed Graffiti Analysis/Intelligence Tracking System (GAITS) - takes pictures of graffiti, using GPS cameras that record the date, time and exact location. It then extracts information from the photographs and provides reports of each incident of graffiti which can be matched against other graffiti stored on a computer database in an effort to track down the perpetrator. Keeping a database of known graffiti means offenders can be charged with multiple counts of vandalism. The ability to locate where graffiti occurs means work can also be tracked. In one case, the system showed that graffiti was located in close proximity to a suspect's house, the park he used and the school he attended, providing compelling evidence for the police. Mr Kephart devised the system after he analysed more than 450 gang graffiti photographs for his master's thesis. He identified a series of trends, particularly relating to gangs which US police authorities believe are responsible for much of the graffiti in cities such as Los Angeles. It is estimated that there are 720 street gangs in Los Angeles with some 40,000 members. British PM Tony Blair helps the graffiti clean-up Much of graffiti contained coded messages to rival gangs as well as codes to identify the particular gang responsible for it, Kephart discovered. So far, 20 cities in California, Nevada and Nebraska have bought the system and Mr Kephart expects sales to double in the next 12 months. While the authorities regard graffiti as vandalism, others are not so sure the high-tech system is the best way to tackle the problem. "I have never heard anything so hilarious," said Simon Davies, head of Privacy International. "The money they are spending on this should be reinvested in urban regeneration, using graffiti as an art form. "Surveillance tracking destroys self-esteem and there are more effective solutions to urban dysfunction," he said. paint to help deter graffiti 29 Teenage boys warned over graffiti 22 Graffiti art encouraged at castle 15 and West New graffiti planned for station 11 to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6701855.stm | Design win for Alzheimer's tool May 2007, 17:07 GMT 18:07 UK win for Alzheimer's tool The winning entry is designed to help people with Alzheimer's An online screensaver and social network for people with Alzheimer's and their carers has won a Microsoft-led software design prize. "Memories are made of this" was designed by Said Dajani, website manager for the Alzheimer's Society. The tool includes a screen saver which carers could use as a memory prompt, uploading text, images and video clips. Microsoft's engineers will now turn the concept into reality, with the aim of implementing the system. DesignIT is an annual competition to champion the work of software designers and reverse the stereotypes of IT managers as "geeks". Professionals were invited to submit plans for computer systems which demonstrated creativity as well as "tackling social and human interest problems experienced by charities". "It was a public vote - so that was very gratifying," said Mr Dajani. "More and more people are coming across dementia, affecting them and their family. "It is estimated that one million people will have a form of dementia by 2025." Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia. It is a physical disease which causes the chemistry and structure of the brain to change, leading to the death of brain cells. Mr Dajani said the idea behind the design was to help carers and those with Alzheimer's to remember important facts about their lives. "The screensaver is a virtual scrapbook - a carer and person with dementia can work together to upload pictures, video, text. "We have found that an offline scrapbook has been of real benefit to both and we want to extend this to the digital world. It puts people in contact with their memories." Artists interpreted the designs for an exhibition. Here, Annabel Emson was inspired by a plan centred on reducing CO2 emissions The second part of the scheme is the creation of a social network for people with dementia. "There is definitely a need for a shared, secured network so that people with dementia can talk with each other," said Mr Dajani. "This will mean people with dementia will not have to deal with complicated log-ins but could chat to other members of the network who are online at the same time." As part of the scheme artists have been working to interpret the designs for an exhibition in London this week to showcase the work. "We're very honoured. The artist came in to see us and to find out what it means to have dementia," said Mr Dajani. The other finalists included two plans to help people understand their carbon footprint, a website to help track whale sightings around the UK and an anti-bullying site. 'diet link' analysed 19 Alzheimer's drug's impact hailed 14 Loneliness link with Alzheimer's 06 Feb 07 | Health to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6700691.stm | Move to create less clumsy robots May 2007, 13:19 GMT 14:19 UK to create less clumsy robots The robot being developed by the German Aerospace Centre The race to create more human-like robots stepped up a gear this week as scientists in Spain set about building an artificial cerebellum. The end-game of the two-year project is to implant the man-made cerebellum in a robot to make movements and interaction with humans more natural. The cerebellum is the part of the brain that controls motor functions. Researchers hope that the work might also yield clues to treat cognitive diseases such as Parkinson's. The research, being undertaken at the Department of Architecture and Computing Technology at the University of Granada, is part of a wider European project dubbed Sensopac Sensopac brings together electronic engineers, physicists and neuroscientists from a range of universities including Edinburgh, Israel and Paris with groups such as the German Aerospace Centre. It has 6.5m euros of funding from the European Commission. Its target is to incorporate the cerebellum into a robot designed by the German Aerospace Centre in two year's time. The work at the University of Granada is concentrating on the design of microchips that incorporate a full neuronal system, emulating the way the cerebellum interacts with the human nervous system. Implanting the man-made cerebellum in a robot would allow it to manipulate and interact with other objects with far greater subtlety than industrial robots can currently manage, said researcher Professor Eduardo Ros Vidal, who is co-ordinating work at the University of Granada. "Although robots are increasingly more important to our society and have more advanced technology, they cannot yet do certain tasks like those carried out by mammals," he said. "We have been talking about humanoids for years but we do not yet see them on the street or use the unlimited possibilities they offer us," he added. One use of such robots would be as home-helps for disabled people. The aim is robots with a subtle touch The next stage of the Sensopac project is to develop an artificial skin for robots, making them look more human-like as well as being information-sensitive in the same way as human skin is. This system is being developed by the German Aerospace Centre in collaboration with other research groups. The ambitious project is just one of many attempts to create more human-like robots. Another European research project - dubbed Feelix Growing - has been given 2.3m euros to develop robots that can learn from humans and respond socially and emotionally. The medical community is making huge strides in the use of man-made parts for failures in the human brain. Last year US scientists implanted a sensor in a paralysed man's brain that has enabled him to control objects by using his thoughts alone. The fast pace of current robotics research has prompted deeper questions about how androids would be integrated into human society. Some have called for a code of ethics for robots while others question how humans will cope in the face of machine intelligence. future poses hard questions 24 Apr age poses ethical dilemma 07 Mar of the consumer robots 11 Jan could demand legal rights 21 Dec 06 | Technology Introducing humans version 2.0 24 Oct 06 | Technology to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6703249.stm | Microsoft unveils table computer May 2007, 08:07 GMT 09:07 UK unveils table computer The computer does away with the need for a keyboard Microsoft has unveiled a new touch-sensitive coffee table-shaped computer called "Surface". Designed to do away with the need for a traditional mouse and keyboard, users can instead use their fingers to operate the computer. Also designed to interact with mobile phones placed on the surface, Microsoft says it will initially sell the unit to corporate customers. These will include hotels, casinos, phone stores and restaurants. So-called "multi-touch" interfaces - which allow the user to move several fingers on a screen to manipulate data, rather than relying on a mouse and menus - have been making waves in tech circles for some time. We envision a time when surface computing technologies will be pervasive, from tabletops and counters to the hallway mirror Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer One of the most hotly-awaited examples is Apple's iPhone, which is scheduled to be released in June. Hewlett-Packard has also been looking at expanding multi-touch technology, in addition to leading research scientists such as Jeff Han of New York University's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. With a 30-inch screen, Surface will initially sell for between $5,000 and $10,000 (£2,525-£5,050). However, Microsoft said it aimed to produce cheaper versions for homes within three to five years. "We see this as a multi-billion dollar category, and we envision a time when surface computing technologies will be pervasive, from tabletops and counters to the hallway mirror," said Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer. Microsoft says small groups of people will be able to use each Surface machine simultaneously. They will be first deployed in November in Sheraton hotels, Harrah's casinos, T-Mobile stores, and numerous restaurants. The computer giant has had a mixed record recently with new consumer products. While its Xbox games console has been a success, its Zune music player continues to lag far behind Apple's iPod. AND AUDIO NEWS A hands-free version of Microsoft's table computer Microsoft buys ad firm for $6bn 18 Microsoft's Vista sales power up 16 The evolution of a giant 02 Microsoft wins AT&T patent battle 30 Apr 07 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK launches a tool designed to make it easier for computer users to access online information offline. Google searches web's dark side Google Earth turns spotlight on Darfur Apple TV to show YouTube content The popular YouTube video website will soon be available directly through Apple's TV set-top box. US arrests internet 'spam king' A man nicknamed the 'spam king' for allegedly sending out millions of junk e-mails is arrested in the US. EMI strikes a deal with YouTube US backs nuclear fuel bank plan Google privacy policy 'is vague' IN THE NEWS Malaysia seeks new Irish sniffer dogs to root out pirate DVDs This group is something of an experiment by someone who isn't quite sure social networking is for him The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones sets up a technology Facebook page Clash of the titans? Microsoft's Bill Gates and Apple's Steve Jobs talk technology X-ray technology is revolutionising patient care VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS New 'watch' device can translate words Campaign to axe plastic bags Actor's support for whaling ban Bush calls for climate action More Video / Audio News Watch the latest edition of Click Children 'meet net friends often' Hi-tech tool tracks city graffiti Microsoft unveils table computer Telescope boost to UK astronomy Music site Last.fm bought by CBS Design win for Alzheimer's tool Move to create less clumsy robots Which freedoms do we want online? Facing up to Facebook fears to make friends on Facebook Designing mobiles for the world Too old for networking? Wi-fi and RFID used for tracking How the network can bring politicians and citizens closer Our intrepid social networker is suddenly very popular Budding Beethovens are getting groovy online ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707397.stm | eBay buys recommendations website May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK buys recommendations website EBay has $3.5bn in cash and has been on a spending spree Internet auction site eBay has bought StumbleUpon, a website that recommends other websites, for $75m (£38m). The deal means eBay will get access to almost 2.5 million registered users, who recommend sites to each other. Users get search results that are based on their profiles, which the site says gives them more relevant results than a regular search engine. EBay had $3.5bn in cash last month and has been on an acquisition spree buying firms such as Shopping.com and StubHub. StumbleUpon was founded in 2001 by three Canadian software engineers in Calgary. It is free for users and generates revenue through advertising, although users may pay an annual fee to avoid seeing any adverts. StumbleUpon's founders and managers will become eBay employees and eBay's Michael Buhr will become its general manager. 2.0 wonders: StumbleUpon 29 Mar demands eBay ticket bar 14 Man spots stolen goods on eBay 20 Apr 07 | North West Wales EBay and Tom in China partnership 20 Dec 06 | Business EBay to buy Skype in $2.6bn deal 12 Sep 05 | Business eBay's 10-year rise to world fame 02 Sep 05 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles girl abducted, police say windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6706565.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Children 'meet net friends often' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 23:41 GMT 00:41 UK 'meet net friends often' Children often surf the net behind their parents' backs, research says Many children are meeting up with people they first encountered on the internet - and their parents know nothing about it, a study claims. Web security firm Garlik surveyed hundreds of eight to 15-year-olds and found 20% have met an online friend in person - and one-in-20 do so regularly. Just 7% of parents were aware of their child's behaviour, the study suggested. Garlik, which advises people about data protection on the web, said youngsters were putting themselves in danger. The firm polled 500 young people about their online habits - and 500 parents were asked about their attitudes. It found that 40% of children regularly visit websites that are specifically prohibited by their parents and many give out sensitive information without parental consent. Details divulged include full name (30%), home address (12%), school details (46%) and family photos (9%). One in 10 admitted to being cyber-bullied - but only half said they had spoken to their parents about the ordeal. Despite 90% of parents saying they monitored their offspring's internet usage, more than half of the youngsters admitted to surfing the internet when their parents did not know. Garlik boss Tom Ilube labelled the research a "shocking wake-up call" to British parents. "The web is a wonderful place to explore - but young people continue to make themselves vulnerable by not applying the same caution online as they would in person." Would you consider joining internet websites to see what your children are up to? Let us know using the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. arrested over web bullying 24 Feb 07 | South West Wales Net safety day marked worldwide 06 Feb control of your digital ID 01 Nov 06 | Technology in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6704029.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Hi-tech tool tracks city graffiti Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 11:35 GMT 12:35 UK tool tracks city graffiti Some people call it art, others vandalism US cities are battling the problem of vandalism head on with a hi-tech system that analyses and tracks graffiti and its perpetrators. In the US, cleaning up graffiti is estimated to cost about $10bn (£5bn) per year. Rather than simply obliterate the graffiti, the system keeps a permanent record of it which allows police to compile a database of similar daubings. This surveillance of graffiti has angered some privacy advocates. Graffiti Tracker, the brainchild of graduate student and crime analyst Timothy Kephart, uses global positioning systems (GPS), digital photography and computer databases to track and catch graffiti artists. The system - dubbed Graffiti Analysis/Intelligence Tracking System (GAITS) - takes pictures of graffiti, using GPS cameras that record the date, time and exact location. It then extracts information from the photographs and provides reports of each incident of graffiti which can be matched against other graffiti stored on a computer database in an effort to track down the perpetrator. Keeping a database of known graffiti means offenders can be charged with multiple counts of vandalism. The ability to locate where graffiti occurs means work can also be tracked. In one case, the system showed that graffiti was located in close proximity to a suspect's house, the park he used and the school he attended, providing compelling evidence for the police. Mr Kephart devised the system after he analysed more than 450 gang graffiti photographs for his master's thesis. He identified a series of trends, particularly relating to gangs which US police authorities believe are responsible for much of the graffiti in cities such as Los Angeles. It is estimated that there are 720 street gangs in Los Angeles with some 40,000 members. British PM Tony Blair helps the graffiti clean-up Much of graffiti contained coded messages to rival gangs as well as codes to identify the particular gang responsible for it, Kephart discovered. So far, 20 cities in California, Nevada and Nebraska have bought the system and Mr Kephart expects sales to double in the next 12 months. While the authorities regard graffiti as vandalism, others are not so sure the high-tech system is the best way to tackle the problem. "I have never heard anything so hilarious," said Simon Davies, head of Privacy International. "The money they are spending on this should be reinvested in urban regeneration, using graffiti as an art form. "Surveillance tracking destroys self-esteem and there are more effective solutions to urban dysfunction," he said. paint to help deter graffiti 29 May 07 | Wear Teenage boys warned over graffiti 22 May 07 | Surrey Graffiti art encouraged at castle 15 May 07 | Glasgow and West New graffiti planned for station 11 May 07 | Bristol online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6708927.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | US backs nuclear fuel bank plan Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 14:29 GMT 15:29 UK backs nuclear fuel bank plan Nuclear reactors need enriched uranium An international scheme to produce a controlled supply of enriched uranium has won support from the US and Russia. The US Congress Foreign Affairs Committee has approved a bill that supports the creation of an global nuclear fuel bank. It would be supervised by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which inspects reactors. The aim is to end uncertainty over states that enrich uranium and if they plan to use it for fuel or weapons. The fuel bank would produce enriched uranium, which is a necessary ingredient in nuclear power reactors, keeping stocks of it for sale. Countries that are building nuclear reactors would not have to make their own uranium fuel - they could simply buy it from the bank. The US decision comes less than two weeks after Russia and Kazakhstan signed an inter-governmental agreement with the IAEA to consider setting up such a facility in Siberia. Concerns over nuclear proliferation have most recently been raised over Iran, which is building a reactor in Bushehr and has a uranium enrichment facility in Natanz. Co-sponsor of the bill, US Democrat Tom Lantos, stated, "Those who truly seek to develop nuclear power solely for peaceful means will jump at the chance to take part in this fuel bank." Uranium is usually enriched using hundreds or thousands of centrifuges - cylindrical rotors moving at high-speed in an almost friction-free environment - that slowly increase the useful component of the element. Countries will simply not agree to it Frank Barnaby, security expert The nuclear fuel cycle But because similar equipment is also used to enrich uranium for nuclear bombs, it is often difficult to be certain about the true intentions of states that build them. According to the IAEA, Iran has constructed more than 1,300 centrifuges at Natanz. Iran insists that its nuclear ambitions are peaceful, but the international community has imposed sanctions on the country over fears that it wants to develop a nuclear weapon. A nuclear fuel bank that guaranteed uranium access to Iran could provide a possible solution to the political dilemma. It would remove the need for Iran to enrich uranium for fuel at all. It would also allow the IAEA to more accurately measure how much nuclear fuel is being used, making it easier to spot if any uranium is diverted for non-peaceful purposes. However, Frank Barnaby, a security expert at the Oxford Research Group, an independent security charity, does not believe it will work: "Countries will simply not agree to it," he said. "Iran says it has an unalienable right to enrich uranium to fuel nuclear power reactors, and there is no reason for it to choose to use the bank." A recent paper published by the IAEA said that the nuclear fuel bank would be supervised by the IAEA but "financed on a commercial basis or by the [IAEA] Member States". The US has committed $50m of funding to the bank, matching $50 million that was offered in 2006 by the Nuclear Threat Initiative, a US-based charity. Following an agreement in May 2007 between Kazakhstan and Russia, a site for the nuclear fuel bank is now being considered in the remote city of Irkutsk, in Eastern Siberia. There is already a large uranium enrichment plant in the area. Kazakhstan has about 20 per cent of the world's uranium ore and it reportedly has plans to triple production to 15,000 tonnes by the end of the decade. The proposed nuclear fuel bank in Irkutsk will be discussed at a meeting of the IAEA's Board of Governors in June 2007. Despite these commitments by the US and Russia, security expert Frank Barnaby says that other countries are likely to oppose the plans. He said: "The UK and Japan have historically made objections to the idea of a nuclear fuel bank because they see enriching uranium as a secret operation and any international efforts to create a bank will mean information will leak, which threatens their security." continues nuclear defiance Nuclear watchdog's attack warning US to push for new Iran sanctions West 'fails' on Iran nuclear fuel What's behind the row between the UN and Tehran over its nuclear programme ElBaradei pushes 'third way' Tehran alarm at US tough talk Quick guide: Iran nuclear crisis Iran's key nuclear sites From atom to bomb How should world deal with Iran? Inside Iran - special report International Atomic Energy Agency online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6717865.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 11:58 GMT 12:58 UK has received a lot of media attention Apple has confirmed that its much-anticipated iPhone product will launch on 29 June in the US. The date was given in a series of TV adverts broadcast on Sunday, and was later confirmed by a spokesman for the California-based company. The device, which combines the features of a mobile phone and personal digital assistant, will sell for $499 (£251) and $599, depending on configuration. The phone's much-touted feature is a completely touch-sensitive interface. The adverts on Sunday showed off several of the gadget's features, including surfing the net, watching videos and scrolling through e-mails using a finger as a pointer. They ended with the news that the phone would be available "Only on the new AT&T" and "Coming June 29". I don't think it will disrupt the market Thomas Husson, Jupiter Research The product is one of the most highly-anticipated devices ever made by Apple and was announced last January at MacWorld in San Francisco by the firm's chief executive Steve Jobs. His unveiling of the device managed to overshadow one of the world's largest technology conferences, CES, which was being held at the same time in Las Vegas. Apple hopes to grab a slice of the global mobile phone market, which dwarfs the market for MP3 players, of which it is the dominant player with the iPod. It hopes that the phone's multi-touch display, and ability to work with its iTunes music and video store, will make the device attractive to consumers. Thomas Husson, senior researcher for the mobile market at Jupiter Research, said: "The biggest selling points of the iPhone are the Apple brand itself and the new user interface. "Apple has stated it wants to sell 10m iPhones by the end of 2008. That's less than 1% of the total mobile phone market. But it is a significant target in the smart phone market." He added: "This is a premium product. I don't think it will disrupt the market but it does raise awareness that mobile phones can be used for entertainment as well as for voice calls and SMS." A release date for Europe and the rest of the world has not been given. 'magical' iPhone unveiled 09 Jan the bonnet of the iPhone 10 Jan and tears for Apple's iPhone 09 Jan Log: A day with Vista 01 Feb Apple's iPhone upset the mobile cart? 10 Jan 07 | Business Your reviews: Vista and rivals 29 Jan mind the OS X 31 Mar 06 | Technology Apple Worldwide Developers Conference online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6719147.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Glimpsing the mobile future Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 12:30 GMT 13:30 UK the mobile future Do we need another object in our lives? asks Bill Thompson What will tomorrow's mobile devices look like? asks Bill Thompson, and how useful will they be? As a digital nomad of some years standing I've had a lot of opportunity to try out various mobile technologies that claim to make my life easier. I've had phones, smartphones, PDAs, sub-notebooks, infra-red keyboards and various other devices, peripherals, gizmos and cool toys. Many of them have come to me second-hand from my early adopter friend Simon, who seems to have an unerring ability to spot the hottest new gadget and a congenital inability to resist paying good money for unproven consumer electronics. But I doubt even Simon will be rushing out to spend $500 on the latest offering from Palm, the Foleo. It is a strange hybrid, a Linux-based sub-notebook with a 10-inch display, a full-size keyboard and solid-state storage instead of a disk drive. According to Palm it isn't a laptop or a PDA, it's a "companion device" for your Treo smartphone, linking seamlessly through Bluetooth and letting you type faster and see what you're doing more clearly than you can manage on the phone itself. While some may see this as an acknowledgement that once the excitement of having a web-enabled phone passes most of us just find it irritating to have to work on such a small scale, Palm clearly sees it as the opportunity to sell us yet another piece of hardware. Touch screens work well for larger devices or fixed displays, but I'm back with a proper number pad now and loving it iPhone launch date given Even ignoring the unfortunate similarity between a "companion device" for your phone and the "companion animals" which help people cope with disabilities, the idea of having another device to lug around makes little sense. And if you've got space for a kilo of Foleo, you've probably got space for a real laptop rather than this glorified add-on. Even the Nokia N800 Internet Tablet would do a decent job. Palm may have created the PDA market with the Palm Pilot and followed it with the innovative Treo smartphone, but the Foleo seems unlikely to re-establish it as the innovative market leader it once was. The Foleo is just another clamshell device with a rigid screen and a keyboard, a not-very-novel application of existing technologies that ignores the real innovations that are already affecting the mobile space. The iPhone hopes to introduce a new way of using displays We are on the cusp of a real transformation in the ways we interact with our computers, and I can't see the need for yet another cut-down laptop when new displays and input devices are being announced daily. Touch sensitive displays are increasingly common, and multi-touch systems that let you make gestures and direct activities using several fingers at once will allow novel user interfaces for all sorts of devices. Not all of them will work, of course. I suspect that Apple's iPhone, coming to market at the end of the month, will end up offering a fascinating insight into the conflicts created when the coolest looking technology turns out to be far less usable than it was supposed to be. Having used a smartphone with a touchscreen for over a year, I can testify to the sheer irritation of having "keys" that offer no tactile feedback when you touch them and of trying to use a handheld device that forces you to stare closely at the screen whenever you're trying to do call a number or send a text. Touch screens work well for larger devices or fixed displays, but I'm back with a proper number pad now and loving it. I suspect that many iPhone users will do the same. Screens themselves are being transformed and flexible, full-colour displays are finally entering production. Last week Sony demonstrated its new flexible screen technology, a wafer-thin colour display that may start out being used for moving adverts in magazines but could let us turn almost any surface into a screen. LG Philips and Universal Display Corporation have their own full-colour flexible screen, with a 320 by 240 pixel display, while Cambridge Display Technology continues to develop its own flexible screens based around polymer LEDs. We're also seeing devices with new displays built in to them, like the Sony Reader, or the new Readius from Polymer Vision which has a screen that wraps around and unfolds to let you read from its greyscale display. Researchers in the US have managed to solve one of the problems facing these displays, which is that while the displays themselves can be made transparent the electronics which control them are opaque. We now have see-through transistors made with zinc oxide and indium oxide 'nanowires', making it possible to build displays into glasses or car windscreens. As an alternative to better displays, phones may soon come with built-in high-intensity projectors. TI recently demonstrated a projector that can be used to watch movies or for reading documents without having to get out a magnifying glass. While these new technologies will make their way into consumer devices in the next few years, for the moment the laptop, like the book, is more convenient and more usable than the alternatives. We use other devices not because they are better but because they are smaller or lighter, because they offer simple connectivity when we are on the move, and of course because they consume less power and so have much longer battery life. In the near future the compromises that have always faced the designers of mobile devices may no longer be necessary as new forms of display and new input technologies give designers more creative license. The practice of architecture was completely transformed in the late twentieth century as new building materials made it possible for an architect to draw the most fantastic buildings and say 'build that', instead of having to work with the physical limitations of steel or concrete. We may be on the verge of a similar transformation in the ways we design and build the many digital devices that we use in daily life. Bill Thompson is an independent journalist and regular commentator on the BBC World Service programme Digital Planet. the mobile future Bringing politics to the people Finding myself through the net The evolution of a giant Watching art imitate life Concern as net hits data limits 'I was wrong about Steve Jobs' Who gains from Wikileaks? The political power of the network The mash-up future of the web 'Why I don't believe Steve Jobs' Is e-democracy now a reality? 02 Mar 07 | Politics Sony flexible display on Crunchgear online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6704013.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Google privacy policy 'is vague' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 08:12 GMT 09:12 UK privacy policy 'is vague' Technology editor, BBC News website Google's online influence worries some privacy campaigners Elements of Google's privacy policy are "vague" and need to be made more precise, the firm's global privacy counsel has told BBC News. Peter Fleischer said the company "could do better" with policy statements that explained why user information was sometimes shared with third parties. Mr Fleischer said Google would never give "identifiable personal data" to third parties, including advertisers. Google's privacy policy has come under scrutiny in recent weeks. A working party of European Information Commissioners has written to Google to ask the firm to explain why it holds on to users' web history data for up to two years. Google has said it would respond by the end of June. There is also growing concern from privacy campaigners over the implication of Google's proposed purchase of advertising firm DoubleClick. The ad company helps link up advertising agencies, marketers and web site publishers hoping to put adverts online. Campaigners argue that the two firms will have an unprecedented amount of information on users' web-surfing habits. In an interview with the BBC News website, Mr Fleischer said: "The general principle is that we are going to maintain the privacy of our users; that is pretty fundamental. There are some very limited circumstances in which we would share user data with third parties "We will never transfer to third parties, including advertisers, any personally identifiable information about our users. "Our goal is to be as transparent as possible with our users when it comes to privacy. That transparency builds trust and we will succeed or fail on whether our users trust us." Mr Fleischer said its privacy policy was written to be as "clear and simple as possible". But he admitted two elements of the policy statement needed attention. When we use third parties to assist us in processing your personal information, we require that they comply with our Privacy Policy and any other appropriate confidentiality and security measures. We may also share information with third parties in limited circumstances, including when complying with legal process, preventing fraud or imminent harm, and ensuring the security of our network and services. "There is a constant process of trying to be clear with language and improve notices," said Mr Fleischer. "We ought to be able to do better than that now that you have drawn my attention to that particular clause," he said, referring to the first clause. After being questioned on the second element, he said: "It is kind of vague. I wish we could do better on that one." Mr Fleischer said Google shared data with third parties when it outsourced a part of its operation. "The clause essentially says that if we hire outsourcing functions to provide something like virus scanning or security models, we at Google would still be practices for our end users." He said the clause also covered the movement of data between Google Inc, the US-registered company, and its affiliates, such as Google in the UK. "There are some very limited circumstances in which we would share user data with third parties. One of them would be if we were under a legal order from the police to do so. He added: "Very rarely there will be a case where the police say someone is in actual danger and needs our help. "We have had a case when someone was kidnapped and Gmail was being used for a hostage ransom demand. These are incredibly rare situations. "We are not going to hide behind procedures." Mr Fleischer said the company would also share user data with third-party security experts if Google was the subject of a massive hacker attack. "This is purely hypothetical but we might need to share user data with security experts to find out who is hacking, and where is this coming from." In a statement a Google spokesman said: "We write our privacy policy so that it is simple and easy to understand. "Our users' privacy is a priority for us, and we're continually reviewing our privacy policy clauses to make them even more transparent. We welcome all comments and feedback that helps us with this." What is your reaction to this story? Do we need to do more to ensure data protection? Send us your comments using the form below: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. could face in-depth probe 29 May 07 | Business Google to list top 100 searches 22 May founder's success secrets 22 May online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6718145.stm BBC NEWS | Business | Sony price cut for Blu-ray player Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 11:39 GMT 12:39 UK price cut for Blu-ray player The DVD format fight has echoes of the 1980s VHS-Betamax war Sony has cut $100 (£50) off the price of its new next-generation DVD player as it tries to get ahead in the market. The BDP-S300 now costs $499 - half what the firm's first Blu-ray player cost at its launch six months ago. Sony said growing demand for the next generation technology and falling production costs had allowed for the price cut. Electronics company Toshiba sells its rival high-definition (HD) DVD player format for less than $300. Both companies have struggled to win customers for their respective systems as the battle of the formats is causing confusion, according to analysts. They believe customers will wait to see which one the market will settle for in an echo of the 1980s Betamax-VHS videotape battle. Most sales of Blu-ray discs are for use on the Sony Playstation 3 console, which contains a Blu-ray player - although film purists say that they are not ideal for watching DVDs. The introduction of two next-generation formats has split both the electronics industry and Hollywood film studios. Players and discs for Toshiba's HD DVD and the Sony-led Blu-ray system went on sale last year. The two technologies are incompatible but offer similar features. Both are able to store large amounts of data, important for high-definition images and high-fidelity audio, and both use a blue laser to read information. Used in games consoles, the two formats offer detailed graphics and stunning sound on one disc. Backers of Sony's Blu-ray discs include Samsung, Dell and Apple, while NEC, Sanyo and others have been pushing Toshiba's HD DVD. In Hollywood, companies like Disney and 20th Century Fox have sided with Sony, while the supporters of HD DVD include Universal. Earlier this year, South Korean firm LG announced it would build the first DVD player to play both rival high-definition DVD formats. The player will be launched at the same time as a hybrid double-sided Blu-ray HD DVD disc, developed by Warner Bros, although no release dates have been given. raises stakes in DVD wars 10 Jun 05 | Technology Your Blu-ray questions answered 20 Oct 06 | Technology November launch date for HD-DVD 04 Sep 06 | Technology Next generation DVD war hots up 22 Jun 06 | Technology Next-generation DVD battle begins 19 Apr 06 | Technology DVD battle heads for showdown 03 Mar 06 | Click HD DVD Promotion Group regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6711785.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Motion-sensitive PC put to the test Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 15:42 GMT 16:42 UK PC put to the test Click's Spencer Kelly takes a hands-on look at three gadgets making the news. He tries out a motion-sensitive laptop which is controlled through movement - much like the Nintendo Wii's game controllers. Spencer comes up with a novel solution to an infuriating design quirk in a PDA with a magnetic screen. A phone that has taken LCD screen technology to a new level also grabs his attention. Click's Spencer Kelly tries out the new motion-sensitive PC Embed this video on your site Watch in the News Player Click's full programme can be viewed at Apr the bonnet of the iPhone 10 Jan Nov 06 | Technology Vibration engineers feel the rock 20 Jun 05 | Technology 'Body talk' could control mobiles 04 Apr 05 | Technology Click - the BBC's technology show Europe online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6709209.stm BBC NEWS | Business | EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK strikes a deal with YouTube EMI bands such as the Rolling Stones will be available on YouTube EMI has signed a deal with YouTube that will allow its users to access videos by EMI artists. It means all four of the world's major music firms are now YouTube partners. The terms of the agreement should eventually allow users to incorporate recordings by EMI artists into their own projects. The deal follows a string of lawsuits by companies who accuse YouTube of allowing its users to pirate their copyrighted works. The biggest threat comes from entertainment giant Viacom Media which is suing YouTube for $1bn (£505m). The US group - which owns MTV and Nickelodeon - claims that the website uses its shows illegally. "We're excited to add EMI Music's stellar roster of artists' content to our site and make it available to our community," said Chad Hurley, chief executive of YouTube. Eric Nicoli, chief executive of EMI Group, said the deal would "offer consumers the best possible entertainment experiences" by using "innovative business models that will generate revenues for our business and our creators". "Through this agreement EMI Music and its artists will be fairly compensated for their work," Mr Nicoli said. EMI and YouTube have agreed to work together to develop ways in which EMI-owned recordings can be incorporated into user generated content by YouTube users. News of the deal comes just 10 days after EMI agreed to be taken over by private equity group Terra Firma for £2.4bn. Google bought the video-sharing website for $1.65bn (£883m) in October 2006. TV to show YouTube content 31 May 07 | Business YouTube site 'blocked' in Morocco 29 May 07 | Africa Music giant EMI agrees takeover 21 May 07 | Business YouTube fights Viacom legal bid 01 May 07 | Business EMI 'opens its books to suitors' 18 May 07 | Business Cost-cutting success bolsters EMI 18 Apr 07 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6707333.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | US arrests internet 'spam king' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 10:49 GMT 11:49 UK arrests internet 'spam king' Mr Soloway allegedly sent millions of e-mails on hijacked computers A man nicknamed the "spam king" for allegedly sending out millions of junk e-mails has been arrested in the US. Robert Soloway, 27, was arrested in Seattle, Washington, after being indicted on charges of mail fraud, identity theft and money laundering. Mr Soloway has pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Prosecutors say Mr Soloway became one of the world's biggest spammers, using computers secretly infected with orders to send out millions of his e-mails. Such computers are known as "zombies" because their owners often have no idea they have been hijacked for another purpose. According to prosecutors, Mr Soloway was responsible for tens of millions of unsolicited e-mails promoting his own company between November 2003 and May 2007. He is said to have frequently changed the web address of his internet marketing business to avoid being caught. A US lawyer said Mr Soloway was the first person to be prosecuted for sending out spam e-mails using federal laws against identity theft. Prosecutors want to seize the sum of $773,000 (£391,000) that Mr Soloway is said to have made from his firm. If convicted of all the charges, he also faces a fine of $250,000 (£126,500) and a maximum prison term of 65 years. AND AUDIO NEWS Robert Soloway's arrest is welcomed Spammers plunder Plusnet e-mail 22 May crackdown on market spammers 09 Mar 07 | Business Spam surge drives net crime spree 26 Dec 06 | Technology Anatomy of a spam e-mail 11 Oct 06 | Technology Europe online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6708375.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Online and offline worlds merge Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 13:32 GMT 14:32 UK and offline worlds merge Online maps from Google could be available offline Google has launched a tool designed to make it easier for computer users to use online applications offline. One of the key limitations of web services such as e-mail, word processing and calendars, is that they require a net connection to function. Gears allows access to online data and applications inside the web browser when offline. The tool was launched at Google's global developer day, with 5,000 coders attending seminars worldwide. Google Gears is an open source plug-in for browsers, which the firm hopes will lead to the creation of new web standards. The firm wants many of the people attending its developers conference to use the Gears tools, which are free to use, to adapt their own applications for offline usage. Using Gears, online data that is usually held on web servers can be stored offline on an individual's computer, and then synchronised when the user logs back on to the web. Chris Prince, the engineer leading the Gears project, told the conference in London: "We want a seamless experience between offline and online." "This fills a gap for us," said Jeff Huber, a vice president of engineering at Google. "The internet is great, but you can't always be plugged in to it." Initially, Google's RSS feed reader application - for reading news and blogs - will work offline, but the company plans to add other programmes, Mr Huber said. A word processor with less functionality than WordPad isn't going to upset anyone's business model, online or off Michael Gartenberg, Jupiter Research He said Google's e-mail, calendar, word processing and spreadsheet programmes were logical candidates for offline access. Gears works in most of the leading web browsers, such as Firefox and Internet Explorer, and will soon work with Safari and Opera. "With Google Gears we're tackling a key limitation of the browser in order to make it a stronger platform for deploying all types of applications and enabling a better user experience in the cloud," Google chairman Eric Schmidt said in a statement. He added: "We believe strongly in the power of the community to stretch this new technology to the limits of what's possible and ultimately emerge with an open standard that benefits everyone." Brendan Eich, chief technology officer at Mozilla corporation, the organisation behind the Firefox browser, said: "This announcement is a significant step forward for web applications." Some commentators have seen the move as a strike at Microsoft's dominance in the area of productivity applications. But Jupiter Research analyst Michael Gartenberg struck a more cautious note about the new technology. Writing in his blog, he said: "Folks are missing the point. "Yes, offline functionality is required but it isn't in itself a game changer. A word processor with less functionality than WordPad isn't going to upset anyone's business model, online or off." Google also used the conference to announce Google Mapplets, a tool giving developers the power to customise Google maps with mini-applications. News stories, weather, housing prices, and crime figures could be combined with maps to provide a more geographical representation of data. Speaking at the London-based conference, Ed Parsons, Google's geospatial technologist, said the firm wanted developers to help build a "geo-web". search engines know about us 31 May searches web's dark side 11 May Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6639417.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Facing up to Facebook fears Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 13:54 GMT 14:54 UK up to Facebook fears Internet law professor Michael Geist says attempts to block social media sites such as Facebook are misguided. Facebook has seen rapid growth Facebook, the enormously popular social media website, has attracted a remarkable amount of attention in recent weeks. On the heels of student suspensions for posting negative comments about school officials on Facebook, and the integral role the social media site played for student expression during the horrific events at Virginia Tech, the Province of Ontario in Canada last week announced that it was banning access to the site for thousands of bureaucrats and elected officials. While the merits of Facebook are open to debate - some love it, others hate it, and many simply do not understand what the fuss is about - there should be no debating the fact that many of these policy responses are unnecessary, knee-jerk reactions to an emerging social phenomenon that is poorly understood. Facebook launched in February 2004 as a social network site for Harvard University. The site allowed users to chat, post photos and comments, as well as connect with fellow students with common interests through online groups. The site quickly grew, first to other universities and later to high schools. By last summer, it was used by more than 30,000 educational institutions in the US, Canada, and other English-speaking countries, with roughly eight million users. Last September, Facebook opened its virtual doors to the general public by permitting registrations from people in hundreds of geographic areas. The decision, which created some apprehension among the Facebook community, caused the site to explode in popularity. Facebook is used amongst groups of friends Today, there are 21 million Facebook users worldwide and the site is adding 100,000 new users each week. The site has achieved remarkable success in Britain, where it was recently ranked as the twentieth most visited website in the country, up twenty-fold from the prior year. While the number of UK Facebook users was estimated at 200,000 last September, by March 2007 that number had grown to more than 1.3 million registered users. In fact, more than 40 U.K. universities have signed up to Facebook, leading to some criticism that the site "institutionalises gossip". Although most people associate Facebook with social activities, the site can be very useful in mobilising interest around political and policy issues. For example, six weeks ago, Amber MacArthur, a Canadian television reporter, launched a new group called Canadians for Net Neutrality. Today the group has more than 1,100 participants, sharing ideas and concerns about whether Canadian Internet service providers are treating content and applications in an equitable manner. The recent backlash against Facebook has generally on centred around two concerns - derogatory comments and workplace productivity - ironically missing the real sources of concern such as the privacy impact of posting deeply personal information. Many Facebook users openly comment about issues of concern. That naturally includes students posting thoughts about fellow students and teachers or about supervisors at their part-time jobs. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities In recent months, an Ottawa grocery chain fired several of its employees after company officials discovered negative comments on Facebook, while several Ontario schools have suspended students for posting "offensive" comments about school officials. While companies are obviously entitled to establish the ground rules for employee behaviour, it is hard to see how schools can justify suspending students for simply speaking their minds. It is certainly appropriate to take action against cyber-bullying, however students exercising legitimate free speech should not be punished simply because the speech occurs in a semi-private online forum rather than in a semi-private discussion on school grounds out of earshot of school officials. In fact, educators should seize these opportunities to teach students about both the benefits and drawbacks of social media, while encouraging them to use the tools in positive ways. Facing up to fears The Ontario government ban against Facebook is even more puzzling. Premier Dalton McGuinty indicated that the government does not see how it adds value to the workplace, yet the decision will only further isolate the government from the very public that it serves. Is there really no benefit to have government policy makers access and participate in the hundreds of groups discussing Ontario health care issues? Would it be so bad for elected officials to actually engage with their constituents in a social network environment? The attempts to block Facebook or punish users for stating their opinions fails to appreciate that social network sites are simply the internet generation's equivalent of the town hall, the school cafeteria, or the workplace water cooler - the place where people come together to exchange both ideas and idle gossip. Attempts to block such activity are not only bound to fail, but they ultimately cut off decision makers, school officials, and community leaders from their communities. The answer does not lie in banning Facebook or the other emerging social media sites, but rather in facing up to Facebook fears and learning to use these new tools to engage and educate. Michael Geist holds the Canada Research Chair in Internet and E-commerce Law at the University of Ottawa, Faculty of Law. He can be reached at mgeist@uottawa.ca or online at www.michaelgeist.ca. MICHAEL GEIST COLUMN Push for open access to research US copyright lobby out-of-touch Vista gives a view of a new world Helping users help themselves History lessons for YouTube Internet privacy and Icann Switch off sought for TV treaty Free speech, libel and the net online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6704003.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 13:03 GMT 14:03 UK e-mail 'hit' by spammers The firm recommends using other services for important mail Spammers have knocked out the e-mail service for many of the customers of internet service provider (ISP) Tiscali, the firm has said. Users e-mails have not been delivered to their intended recipients as other ISPs block e-mail traffic from Tiscali. Tiscali has not said how many of its 1.8m UK customers are affected by the outage which started eight days ago. It said engineers were "taking urgent action" to block spammers using its e-mail service to send messages. A statement on the Tiscali website read: "We have been targeted by spammers using our service, which in turn has meant other ISPs have taken measures to block mail sent by Tiscali. This is not affecting all delivery addresses. Some mail continues to be delivered as normal." The ISP said it was currently installing new hardware and updating its spam filters. Spamhaus is certainly not seeing anything that would justify major blocking "This work will be complete today. It is likely to take seven to 10 days for these changes to take full effect across receiving e-mail providers." But some spam experts have expressed surprise that Tiscali has said its current problems are the result of spammers. "There have been major problems in the past," said Richard Cox of Spamhaus, a not-for-profit organisation of IT professionals that tracks spammers and publishes free real time databases of offending addresses used by many big businesses and ISPS. "Spamhaus is certainly not seeing anything that would justify major blocking, unless it is being targeted at one or two specific networks." The organisation uses a network of anonymous e-mail addresses to "trap" spam. "These are on most spammers lists so as soon as spam starts hitting those traps we know its happening," he explained. Spamhaus does not use services such as hotmail, Yahoo or AOL for their spam traps so if these alone were being targeted they would not appear on the Spamhaus radar. Mr Cox speculated that the problem could be the result of a technical failure at Tiscali, something the ISP denies. Tiscali advises customers sending important mail to use an alternative free email service. crime 'big fear' for Britons Net crime to hit homes hard Help is at hand for web security Hackers reveal what they do and how much money they make. How to decode the digital clues in junk mail What exactly did we find in our honeypot trap? Part one of our honeypot online investigation Advice on how to keep safe when online A guide to the terms and buzzwords of hi-tech crime Take our quiz to see how much you know about avoiding computer problems online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/6720135.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | Europe online '24 hours a month' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:51 GMT 17:51 UK online '24 hours a month' Europeans are spending more time online More than 122m Europeans aged 15 and above use the internet each day at home, school or in work, says a report. The average European accesses the net 16.5 days in a month, and spends 24 hours viewing 2,662 web pages, according to tracking firm comScore. The Netherlands has the highest net penetration, with 83% of the country online, the firm reported. Russia, which was included as a European state, has the lowest, at 11% of the population. More than 221m people across the 16 countries surveyed are online each month, comScore said. Germany had the largest online population, with 32.5m net users aged 15 and above, the survey for net usage in May 2007 found. *The percentage of a population aged 15 and above online The UK had the most active online population, spending more than 34.4 hours online each month and a peak of more than 21.8m people online in any given day. Google was the most popular online destination in 13 of the 16 countries, followed by Microsoft in second place and Yahoo in third. Internet penetration across Europe was 40% of the population aged 15 and above, with only Spain (39%), Italy (36%) and Russia (11%) falling below this level. Bob Ivins, managing director of comScore Europe, said: "Increased net usage is tied to broadband roll-out. The UK is an example of a country whose net usage has increased dramatically as broadband has reached more people." He said: "While the study reflects average net usage and penetration, 20% of users account for 60% of usage, with some people spending hundreds of hours online each month." He added: "As convergence takes place between TV and the internet, the nature of what is classed as online and offline will also have to change. "Is someone online when watching TV over the net?" According to comScore, the United States has 156m people online, with 121m online on average each day. the converged media life 14 Feb 07 | Business Online and offline worlds merge 31 May 'meet net friends often' 30 May 07 | UK online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707267.stm BBC NEWS | Business | Apple TV to show YouTube content Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 09:32 GMT 10:32 UK TV to show YouTube content Apple TV offers a bridge between a computer and a television The popular YouTube video website will soon be available directly through Apple's TV set-top box. Apple says that starting from mid-June, Apple TV users will be able to automatically stream YouTube content onto their televisions. At present, Apple TV users can only access content stored in Apple's iTunes music and video library system. The move may raise copyright issues for Apple, as YouTube faces a number of infringement lawsuits. YouTube is currently being sued for $1bn (£506m) by MTV-owner Viacom, after users uploaded thousands of Viacom-owned videos to the service without its permission. However, following Apple's announcement of the tie-up with YouTube, Viacom struck a conciliatory tone. "We're always vigilant about protecting our copyrights," said a Viacom spokeswoman. "But we would welcome the opportunity to license our content to Apple as we do with all distributors." Apple added that YouTube members would also be able to log onto their YouTube accounts on Apple TV. Apple also announced it would be selling a version of Apple TV with much more storage capacity - 160GB, four times that of the current $299 model - for $399. TV - beauty or beast? 22 Mar TV to be 'a few weeks' late 27 Feb site 'blocked' in Morocco 29 May 07 | Africa YouTube founder's success secrets 22 May fights Viacom legal bid 01 May 07 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6710327.stm BBC NEWS | Business | PC maker Dell to cut 7,000 jobs Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 21:12 GMT 22:12 UK maker Dell to cut 7,000 jobs Dell is chasing more efficiencies At least 7,000 jobs are set to be lost at computer firm Dell after it said it would cut its global workforce by 10%. The PC maker has struggled with falling sales and rising costs, prompting founder Michael Dell to take direct charge of the firm earlier this year. Mr Dell said the job losses would be "difficult" but stressed they were critical if the firm was to deliver better value to customers. The US firm employs more than 78,700 staff worldwide. Dell has found life difficult in the face of falling PC costs and tough competition from the likes of a resurgent Hewlett Packard. In response, it has overhauled its management team and focused on improving technical support for customers and moving into fast-growing markets like China and Brazil. It recently started selling PCs through Wal-Mart stores in the US. We know these actions are critical to our ability to deliver unprecedented value Despite this, Dell said it needed to substantially reduce its workforce over the next year to remain competitive. As well as the US, Dell has significant operations in both Europe and Asia. It employs about 1,500 staff in Bracknell in the UK, where its European headquarters are based, and about 4,500 employees in Ireland. It said the scale of the cutbacks would vary across each region depending on current trading, and general business and legal considerations. "While reductions in headcount are always difficult for a company, we know these actions are critical to our ability to deliver unprecedented value to our customers," Mr Dell said. At the same time as announcing the job cuts, Dell actually reported a jump in first-quarter profits to $947m from $762m over the same period last year. It sales rose by about 1% to $14.6bn over the past three months. The news was announced after US stock markets had closed but Dell shares rose more than 2% in anticipation of it beating analysts forecasts. to sell Dell computers 24 May 07 | Business Users force Dell to resurrect XP 20 Apr targets China's PC potential 21 Mar 07 | Business Dell earnings miss market targets 01 Mar 07 | Business Dell founder returns to lead firm 01 Feb 07 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6707397.stm BBC NEWS | Business | eBay buys recommendations website Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK buys recommendations website EBay has $3.5bn in cash and has been on a spending spree Internet auction site eBay has bought StumbleUpon, a website that recommends other websites, for $75m (£38m). The deal means eBay will get access to almost 2.5 million registered users, who recommend sites to each other. Users get search results that are based on their profiles, which the site says gives them more relevant results than a regular search engine. EBay had $3.5bn in cash last month and has been on an acquisition spree buying firms such as Shopping.com and StubHub. StumbleUpon was founded in 2001 by three Canadian software engineers in Calgary. It is free for users and generates revenue through advertising, although users may pay an annual fee to avoid seeing any adverts. StumbleUpon's founders and managers will become eBay employees and eBay's Michael Buhr will become its general manager. 2.0 wonders: StumbleUpon 29 Mar demands eBay ticket bar 14 May 07 | Entertainment Man spots stolen goods on eBay 20 Apr 07 | North West Wales EBay and Tom in China partnership 20 Dec 06 | Business EBay to buy Skype in $2.6bn deal 12 Sep 05 | Business eBay's 10-year rise to world fame 02 Sep 05 | Business regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6711215.stm BBC NEWS | Technology | 'Personal data' in iTunes tracks Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK data' in iTunes tracks Tracks by Coldplay are DRM-free on iTunes The launch of music tracks free of digital locks on iTunes has been overshadowed by the discovery that they contain data about who bought them. Some fear this data could be used to identify the owner of the tracks, if they turn up on file-sharing sites. The tracks from record company EMI cost more and are of a better quality than standard iTunes songs. Apple has yet to comment on what it plans to do with the information embedded in the music files. The tracks without the digital locks, known as Digital Rights Management (DRM) technology, officially went on sale on 30 May under the iTunes Plus banner. The downloads cost $1.29 (99p in the UK) rather than $0.99 (79p in the UK). Apple uses a technology known as Fairplay to limit what people can do with downloads. Fairplay can be circumvented by burning tracks to a CD and then converting them to another format. News site Ars Technica was among the first to discover that downloaded tracks free of Fairplay have embedded within them the full name and account information, including e-mail address, of who bought them. It suggested that this information could be an anti-piracy measure as it could help work out who was putting downloads on file-sharing sites. But it also added that the user information was found on all the tracks that people buy on iTunes whether free of DRM or not. It was not clear, said Ars Technica, whether the data was part of Apple's administration system for iTunes or something else. It said because the data was easy to spoof Apple needed to explain why the data was present. The BBC has contacted Apple seeking comment but so far the company has made no official response. Other websites said it was only a matter of time before a utility program was produced which could strip out the identifying information. At this point it is not yet clear how deeply the user data is buried in the track or how easy it is to remove. EMI's decision to sell DRM-free tracks was announced in April. At the launch event Apple boss Steve Jobs announced that the iTunes store was the first to sign up to sell them. Tracks by artists such as Coldplay, Joss Stone, Frank Sinatra and Pink Floyd are available without DRM technology. The EMI/Apple move followed an open letter penned by Steve Jobs in February that called for music companies to release tracks without digital locks. seeks online music shake-up 07 Feb 07 | Business Will Apple pick music's digital locks? 07 Feb takes locks off music tracks 02 Apr TV to show YouTube content 31 May 07 | Business Amazon to sell unprotected music 16 May 07 | Business Music giant EMI agrees takeover 21 May 07 | Business Q&A: What is DRM? 02 Apr on iTunes Plus launch Ars Technica on iTunes user data online '24 hours a month' price cut for Blu-ray player family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/technology/default.stm BBC NEWS | Technology Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:56 GMT 17:56 UK Europe online '24 hours a month' More than 122m Europeans aged 15 and above use the internet each day, says a report. Children 'meet net friends often' Online and offline worlds merge says its Phone product will hit US stores on 29 June, at a cost of $499 for the entry-level product. Sony price cut for Blu-ray player Sony catches the technology industry off-guard by slashing $100 off the price of its new Blu-ray player. 'Personal data' in iTunes tracks Motion-sensitive PC put to the test PC maker Dell to cut 7,000 jobs Online and offline worlds merge US arrests internet 'spam king' ALSO IN THE NEWS Sealed envelopes hidden for 70 years reveal nuclear secrets It's going to be fun to compare the Nokia N95 to the Apple iPhone in a video review Robert Scoble gets ready for a Nokia v Apple showdown Our digital nomad Bill Thompson glimpses the portable future Clash of the titans? Microsoft's Bill Gates and Apple's Steve Jobs talk technology What do search engines know about us from our online habits? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Internet 'spam king' arrested Lula's hopes for the Amazon Orphaned gorilla finds family Ivory tops animal trade talks More Video / Audio News Watch the latest edition of Click EMI strikes a deal with YouTube US backs nuclear fuel bank plan Apple TV to show YouTube Google privacy policy 'is vague' Children 'meet net friends often' Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers Hi-tech tool tracks city graffiti Glimpsing the mobile future Facing up to Facebook fears Anger over DRM-free iTunes tracks Anger over DRM-free iTunes tracks Anger over DRM-free iTunes tracks Online and offline worlds merge Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers Is web 2.0 really a new and improved version of the web? Debates and discussions about the net's future The BBC's flagship technology lifestyle TV programme ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and
