http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460672.html	MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. MPAA Chairman Dan Glickman said his group's ratings board, which previously had considered underage smoking in assigning film ratings, now will take into account smoking by adults, as well. That adds smoking to a list of such factors as sex, violence and language in determining the MPAA's G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17 ratings. Film raters will consider the pervasiveness of tobacco use, whether it glamorizes smoking and the context in which smoking appears, as in movies set in the past when smoking was more common. Some critics of Hollywood's depictions of tobacco in films have urged that movies that show smoking be assigned an R rating, which would restrict those younger than 17 from seeing them. "I'm glad it's finally an issue they're taking up, but what they're proposing does not go far enough and is not going to make a difference," said Kori Titus, spokeswoman for Breathe California, which opposes film images of tobacco use that might encourage young people to start smoking. Glickman said a mandatory R rating for smoking would not "further the specific goal of providing information to parents on this issue." Smoking in movies with a G, PG or PG-13 rating has been on the decline, and the "percentage of films that included even a fleeting glimpse of smoking" declined from 60 percent to 52 percent between July 2004 and July 2006," Glickman said. Of those films, three-fourths received an R rating for other reasons, he said. "That means there's not a great amount of films in the unrestricted category as it stands," said Joan Graves, who heads the ratings board. "We're not saying we're ignoring the issue. We're trying the best way possible according to what we've learned from parents to give them information about what's in a film." Titus said smoking in films had declined in recent years but remains more prevalent than MPAA figures indicate. Descriptions on sex, violence and language that accompany movie ratings now will include such phrases as "glamorized smoking" or "pervasive smoking," Glickman said. If rated today, a film such as 2005's "Good Night, and Good Luck," about chain-smoking newsman Edward R. Murrow, would have carried a "pervasive smoking" tag but probably would have retained its PG rating because of its historical context in the 1950s, Graves said. Titus said film raters should be as tough on smoking as they are on bad language to minimize the effects of on-screen smoking on children, including her own 5-year-old daughter. "I don't want her using that language, but last time I checked, she's probably not going to die from that," Titus said. "If she starts smoking from these images she sees in movies, chances are she's probably going to die early from that." While Titus' group wants tougher ratings restrictions, the MPAA released statements of support for its plan from John Seffrin, chief executive officer of the American Cancer Society, U.S. Sen. Joe Biden and filmmaker Rob Reiner, among others. "By placing smoking on a par with considerations of violence and sex, the rating board has acknowledged the public-health dangers to children associated with glamorized images of a toxic and lethal addiction to tobacco," Barry Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, said in a statement. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439926.html	Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:41 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 8:14 AM PDT BOSTON (AP) - Something else popped at the Boston Pops opening night concert - a fight broke out in the audience at Symphony Hall. Television video of the fight Wednesday night showed two men struggling in the balcony - one with his shirt pulled off - as several people stood around them and the orchestra and singer-songwriter Ben Folds performed a medley from the movie "Gigi". Conductor Keith Lockhart briefly halted the performance while the men were escorted out. Witnesses said they heard a scream from the balcony, and the sound of chairs falling, then a second scream as the fight escalated. "The first time there was a scream, Keith looked up that way but he kept going," audience member June MacIndoe told Boston's WHDH-TV. "Then about a minute and a half later ... there was a big scream and you could hear chairs falling over and you could see them up there, fists going." At that point, Lockhart stopped the performance for a couple of minutes, she said. "He just stood there, you know, quiet." Boston police spokesman David Estrada said police officers on security detail at the hall escorted the men off the property, and no charges were filed. No injuries were reported, he said. A Boston Symphony spokeswoman did not return a call for comment. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460672.html	MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:47 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. MPAA Chairman Dan Glickman said his group's ratings board, which previously had considered underage smoking in assigning film ratings, now will take into account smoking by adults, as well. That adds smoking to a list of such factors as sex, violence and language in determining the MPAA's G, PG, PG-13, R and NC-17 ratings. Film raters will consider the pervasiveness of tobacco use, whether it glamorizes smoking and the context in which smoking appears, as in movies set in the past when smoking was more common. Some critics of Hollywood's depictions of tobacco in films have urged that movies that show smoking be assigned an R rating, which would restrict those younger than 17 from seeing them. "I'm glad it's finally an issue they're taking up, but what they're proposing does not go far enough and is not going to make a difference," said Kori Titus, spokeswoman for Breathe California, which opposes film images of tobacco use that might encourage young people to start smoking. Glickman said a mandatory R rating for smoking would not "further the specific goal of providing information to parents on this issue." Smoking in movies with a G, PG or PG-13 rating has been on the decline, and the "percentage of films that included even a fleeting glimpse of smoking" declined from 60 percent to 52 percent between July 2004 and July 2006," Glickman said. Of those films, three-fourths received an R rating for other reasons, he said. "That means there's not a great amount of films in the unrestricted category as it stands," said Joan Graves, who heads the ratings board. "We're not saying we're ignoring the issue. We're trying the best way possible according to what we've learned from parents to give them information about what's in a film." Titus said smoking in films had declined in recent years but remains more prevalent than MPAA figures indicate. Descriptions on sex, violence and language that accompany movie ratings now will include such phrases as "glamorized smoking" or "pervasive smoking," Glickman said. If rated today, a film such as 2005's "Good Night, and Good Luck," about chain-smoking newsman Edward R. Murrow, would have carried a "pervasive smoking" tag but probably would have retained its PG rating because of its historical context in the 1950s, Graves said. Titus said film raters should be as tough on smoking as they are on bad language to minimize the effects of on-screen smoking on children, including her own 5-year-old daughter. "I don't want her using that language, but last time I checked, she's probably not going to die from that," Titus said. "If she starts smoking from these images she sees in movies, chances are she's probably going to die early from that." While Titus' group wants tougher ratings restrictions, the MPAA released statements of support for its plan from John Seffrin, chief executive officer of the American Cancer Society, U.S. Sen. Joe Biden and filmmaker Rob Reiner, among others. "By placing smoking on a par with considerations of violence and sex, the rating board has acknowledged the public-health dangers to children associated with glamorized images of a toxic and lethal addiction to tobacco," Barry Bloom, dean of the Harvard School of Public Health, said in a statement. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7468752.html	Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist American Idol finalist Blake Lewis performs in concert on Friday, May 11, 2007 at Westlake Center in Seattle. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 3:47 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Passenger killed on Interstate 5 by loose truck wheels Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Police investigate dead fawn dressed like baby Man dies of cardiac arrest after trying to outperform rival in dance contest 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460657.html	Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - It sounds like a horror movie: a beloved friend is callously exterminated, then reincarnated in a different form to wreak havoc on the killer. That's the nightmare currently facing the music industry. Almost a decade after virtually eliminating 45s and cassette singles, thereby forcing fans to spend more money on whole albums, the digital single is largely responsible for the industry's woes. Consumers no longer need to buy an album if they want that cool jam they heard on the radio - and in growing numbers, they're choosing 99-cent downloads over $15 CDs. Some worry this trend is worsening the quality of albums as a cohesive musical work, and that label executives are more and more interested in quick hits than lasting music or artists. While the vast majority of music consumers still buy CD albums, they are buying less of them, while digital tracks are exploding: According to Nielsen SoundScan, sales of physical CDs this year have declined 20 percent from the same point in 2006, from 112 million to 89 million. Digital tracks are up to 288 million from 242 million at the same period last year. And that's not counting the millions of singles that are illegally downloaded. "Now, we're in a very difference place in terms of the single business," Jim Donio, president of National Association of Recording Merchandisers, said in an interview. "The single business is alive and well, and it's in the form of track downloads." The same cannot be said, however, for albums. Even counting albums that are downloaded along with physical CDs sold, album sales are down 10 percent from the same period last year, according to Nielsen SoundScan, continuing a decline that has been growing for several years. The industry's hard times are evident in recent label consolidations, widespread layoffs, reduction in budgets and an overall air of belt-tightening. In 1996, music companies shipped more than 1.1 billion units - all physical product - for a value of $12.5 billion, according to the Recording Industry Association of America. Ten years later, despite a decline in physical product sold, they industry has "shipped" approximately 1.6 billion units - but its value is down by a billion dollars, to $11.5 billion. "There's probably a fair amount of purchases that would have been albums but are now individual track sales instead," said Geoff Mayfield, director of charts at Billboard magazine. And at 99 cents or so, singles bring in much less profit than albums (which is why iTunes has been pressured by record companies to raise their prices). Other signs show of the singles-driven market: One of the most consistent album chart-toppers is the blockbuster "Now That's What I Call Music!" series, which features a compilation of the hottest tracks of the season and routinely debuts at No. 1. And of course there is the enormous popularity of music download services like iTunes. Recently, iTunes introduce its "Complete the Album" feature, an enticement which gives credit for songs purchased from an album toward purchasing the rest of it. The question remains whether consumers are as interested in completing the albums as they used to. Ciara hopes so. The 21-year-old's latest platinum album, "Ciara: The Evolution," on La Face/Jive Records (a unit of Sony BMG Music Entertainment, a joint venture between Sony Corp. and Bertelsmann AG) wasn't designed to provide just hits, but as an entire experience about her development into a woman, complete with interludes between the tracks. "For me growing up, there was nothing like listening to an album that you could literally sit down and listen to from the beginning to the end," she said. "It can't just be about singles. That's the purpose of an album, it's almost like a story within itself." Avril Lavigne, 22, who's latest album "The Best Damn Thing" on RCA (also a part of Sony BMG) debuted at No. 1, is also still in love with the album: "I'm so all about going to the store and buy a CD." "(But) times are changing," she added. Someday "people aren't going to do records, they're just going to do singles, probably." That would have been hard to believe just a few years ago, given that the single - which gave birth to the recording industry and dominated it for decades - was virtually phased out at a time of huge industry profits. While there are still physical singles in stores, the numbers are so minute that Nielsen SoundScan doesn't even track them. "We tried to stop selling a commercial single because people were making great, great records and albums were selling like hotcakes," says longtime music industry executive Steve Rifkind, founder Street Records Corporation, home to platinum singer/producer Akon, and Loud.com. But removing the option of purchasing a single may not have helped the album much, either - and may have actually boosted the original illegal downloading services like Napster, says Mayfield. "The notion that someone would jump to an album-length purchase because they couldn't find the one song they wanted available was a naive one," he said. Rifkind acknowledges that "we are definitely in a singles market," - but blames the problem on a lack of creativity and "lazy" executives. "People are going after one hit. They are not really caring what the album sounds like ... They are not into artist development anymore. If us as an industry went and started developing talent again, and not worrying about one hit, it would be more than a singles-driven business again." In a recent interview with The Associated Press, Jay-Z, the superstar rapper and president of Def Jam Records, also blamed the quality of the music for the current climate. "We're making disposable music. You can't make disposable music again and again and again and again and not expect anything to happen. We have these huge radio records ... and then won't sell any records," he said. "If you're making just songs, they'll listen to it in the clubs, that's great, they'll listen to it in their car, that's beautiful. Will they buy it? No." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a concert before more than a thousand fans. He was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot, who sang his hit 'Baby Got Back' over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Smoking will be a bigger factor in determining film ratings, the Motion Picture Association of America said Thursday, but critics said the move does not go far enough to discourage teens from taking up the habit. Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Ty Pennington arrested for DUI Paris Hilton's jail time stint likely to add to her celebrity Timberlake and Diaz reunite for cameras at 'Shrek' premiere 'Spider-Man 3' shatters box-office records with $148 million Ceremony for Don Ho draws thousands in Hawaii At Jazz Fest the final acts mean tradition, sadness and promise Thousands turn out for memorial to Hawaiian crooner Don Ho 'The General' fetches $10 million bid `Spider-Man 3' snares audiences with record $59 million first day Paris Hilton sentenced to 45 days in jail Friend says Katie Holmes is not a prisoner in her marriage Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440061.html	Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 7:48 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Five days after she was sentenced to jail, Paris Hilton says she understands the seriousness of driving under the influence and that she is not "above the law." "I am ready to face the consequences of violating probation," Hilton said in a statement released Wednesday by her new attorney, DUI specialist Richard Hutton. "I do not expect to be treated better than anyone else who violated probation. However, my hope is that I will not be treated worse." The 26-year-old socialite was represented by attorney Howard Weitzman during her probation-violation hearing Friday. A receptionist at Hutton's Pasadena office declined to say when Hilton retained his services. Hutton did not return repeated calls for comment. Hilton said she released the statement because "I feel the need to correct what I believe are misperceptions about me." "I absolutely realize how serious driving under the influence is," she said. "I could not live with myself if anyone was injured or killed while I was driving while impaired. Clearly, no one should - no matter how slightly." The notorious party girl, who parlayed her pampered lifestyle into a reality TV show and a pop CD, was sentenced to 45 days in county jail for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case. A judge ordered her to report to the women's jail in suburban Lynwood by June 5, adding that she will not be allowed any work release, furloughs, use of an alternative jail or electronic monitoring instead of time behind bars. Hilton's original legal team, headed by Weitzman, filed a notice with the court on Friday indicating their intent to appeal the decision. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460582.html	Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:40 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Documentary maker Ken Burns said Thursday he will edit his upcoming PBS series about World War II to add stories about Hispanic soldiers after protests that they had been excluded. A day after meeting with Hispanic advocacy groups, Burns said he had collected interviews with Hispanic veterans that he considered powerful and would incorporate them, along with the veterans' personal documents. "The War," a 14-hour series, is scheduled to air in September. "The role of Hispanic-American veterans in WWII is one that lends itself to the universality of this film and merits being included in my film," Burns said in a statement. "It is adding another layer of storytelling that will only enrich what we already have." Burns was traveling to Paris on Thursday for the Cannes Film Festival, where he planned to show his film, said his publicist Joe DePlasco. Burns discussed his plan for revisions in New York on Wednesday with representatives from the American GI Forum, a Hispanic veterans group, and the Hispanic Association of Corporate Responsibility. Burns initially resisted changes to the completed documentary. Last month, after protests by Hispanic groups, Burns brought aboard a Hispanic documentarian, Hector Galan, and said he would fold in stories of Hispanic veterans during breaks in the series or after the end of an installment. Hispanic groups said that amounted to treating Hispanic veterans as an afterthought. Galan helped Burns find the veterans who will be added to the film, said Dayton Duncan, a partner with Burns at Florentine Films. "Our voices and narratives are going to be included. It's not going to be an add-on or addendum. It will have an impact on our veterans," said Antonio Gil Morales of the American GI Forum. Burns' film, made over six years, tells the story of World War II through people from four communities: Waterbury, Conn.; Mobile, Ala.; Sacramento, Calif.; and Luverne, Minn. Hispanic groups began protesting the documentary after Maggie Rivas-Rodgriguez, a University of Texas at Austin journalism professor who has recorded oral histories of Hispanic veterans, learned they were not in Burns' series. Hispanic members of Congress had recently taken their concerns about Burns' series to its corporate sponsors. Rivas-Rodriguez said she learned of Burns' decision through his announcement Thursday and was unaware of the New York meeting. "We have not signed off on anything," she said. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7439966.html	Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Director Michael Moore poses for a portrait Oct. 9, 2002, in Los Angeles. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:24 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Academy Award-winning filmmaker Michael Moore is under investigation by the U.S. Treasury Department for taking ailing Sept. 11 rescue workers to Cuba for a segment in his upcoming health-care documentary "Sicko," The Associated Press has learned. The investigation provides another contentious lead-in for a provocative film by Moore, a fierce critic of President Bush. In the past, Moore's adversaries have fanned publicity that helped the filmmaker create a new brand of opinionated blockbuster documentary. "Sicko" promises to take the health-care industry to task the way Moore confronted America's passion for guns in "Bowling for Columbine" and skewered Bush over his handling of Sept. 11 in "Fahrenheit 9/11." The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control notified Moore in a letter dated May 2 that it was conducting a civil investigation for possible violations of the U.S. trade embargo restricting travel to Cuba. A copy of the letter was obtained Tuesday by the AP. "This office has no record that a specific license was issued authorizing you to engage in travel-related transactions involving Cuba," Dale Thompson, OFAC chief of general investigations and field operations, wrote in the letter to Moore. In February, Moore took about 10 ailing workers from the Ground Zero rescue effort in Manhattan for treatment in Cuba, said a person working with the filmmaker on the release of "Sicko." The person requested anonymity because Moore's attorneys had not yet determined how to respond. Moore, who scolded Bush over the Iraq war during the 2003 Oscar telecast, received the letter Monday, the person said. "Sicko" premieres May 19 at the Cannes Film Festival and debuts in U.S. theaters June 29. Moore declined to comment, said spokeswoman Lisa Cohen. After receiving the letter, Moore arranged to place a copy of the film in a "safe house" outside the country to protect it from government interference, said the person working on the release of the film. Treasury officials declined to answer questions about the letter. "We don't comment on enforcement actions," said department spokeswoman Molly Millerwise. The letter noted that Moore applied Oct. 12, 2006, for permission to go to Cuba "but no determination had been made by OFAC." Moore sought permission to travel there under a provision for full-time journalists, the letter said. According to the letter, Moore was given 20 business days to provide OFAC with such information as the date of travel and point of departure; the reason for the Cuba trip and his itinerary there; and the names and addresses of those who accompanied him, along with their reasons for going. Potential penalties for violating the embargo were not indicated. In 2003, the New York Yankees paid the government $75,000 to settle a dispute that it conducted business in Cuba in violation of the embargo. No specifics were released about that case. "Sicko" is Moore's followup to 2004's "Fahrenheit 9/11," a $100 million hit criticizing the Bush administration over Sept. 11. Moore's "Bowling for Columbine" won the 2002 Oscar for best documentary. A dissection of the U.S. health-care system, "Sicko" was inspired by a segment on Moore's TV show "The Awful Truth," in which he staged a mock funeral outside a health-maintenance organization that had declined a pancreas transplant for a diabetic man. The HMO later relented. At last September's Toronto International Film Festival, Moore previewed footage shot for "Sicko," presenting stories of personal health-care nightmares. One scene showed a woman who was denied payment for an ambulance ride after a head-on collision because it was not preapproved. Moore's opponents have accused him of distorting the facts, and his Cuba trip provoked criticism from conservatives including former Republican Sen. Fred Thompson, who assailed the filmmaker in a blog at National Review Online. "I have no expectation that Moore is going to tell the truth about Cuba or health care," wrote Thompson, the subject of speculation about a possible presidential run. "I defend his right to do what he does, but Moore's talent for clever falsehoods has been too well documented." The timing of the investigation is reminiscent of the firestorm that preceded the Cannes debut of "Fahrenheit 9/11," which won the festival's top prize in 2004. The Walt Disney Co. refused to let subsidiary Miramax release the film because of its political content, prompting Miramax bosses Harvey and Bob Weinstein to release "Fahrenheit 9/11" on their own. The Weinsteins later left Miramax to form the Weinstein Co., which is releasing "Sicko." They declined to comment on the Treasury investigation, said company spokeswoman Sarah Levinson Rothman. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460607.html	'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:42 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - George Clooney, Brad Pitt and other stars of "Ocean's Thirteen" have agreed to use the lighthearted caper film to call attention to a more serious cause - the genocide in Sudan's western Darfur region. Clooney, Pitt, Matt Damon and Don Cheadle along with producer Jerry Weintraub are using events surrounding the movie's premiere next month to promote their Web site, www.notonourwatchproject.org., which is partnering with the International Rescue Committee to raise funds to aid the hundreds of thousands of people uprooted by the Darfur conflict. "All the guys have been to the Sudan this year. They saw this huge genocide and nobody doing anything about it," Weintraub said in an interview Thursday. "Clooney got attention earlier, but it faded." "What we are trying to do here is bring our celebrity to raise money and bring a spotlight on Sudan again. We decided to dedicate ourselves to this. The thing I am most proud of by far is that these events will benefit a cause that is very important to me and my colleagues." There will be benefit screenings of "Ocean's Thirteen," a Warner Bros. Pictures release, to raise funds for Not On Our Watch and the IRC, including a special June 6 screening at the CineVegas Film Festival in Las Vegas, where Weintraub will receive a special Vanguard Producer Award celebrating his half-century in show business. Other events surrounding the film's June 8 nationwide release include the May 24 fundraising debut in Cannes, France, and the June 5 North American premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre, where Clooney and the other stars will leave their footprints in the wet cement outside the Hollywood tourist spot. In "Ocean's Thirteen," directed by Steven Soderbergh, Clooney reprises his role as Danny Ocean, who reassembles his crew of master criminals to take revenge on a hated Las Vegas businessman and casino owner played by Al Pacino. The 69-year-old Weintraub plans to visit the Darfur region later this year. "It's not a pleasant place to go," he said. "They don't need another tourist like me going there. I can do a lot more good here raising money. But I will go. We are all very good friends so when one does something we all get onboard." At least 200,000 people have died and 2.5 million have been chased from their homes since 2003 when ethnic African rebels in Darfur rose up against the Arab-dominated central government. The Sudanese government is accused of retaliating by arming local nomadic tribes and unleashing militias known as the janjaweed - a charge the government denies. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7468752.html	Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist American Idol finalist Blake Lewis performs in concert on Friday, May 11, 2007 at Westlake Center in Seattle. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 4:49 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7468752.html	Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist American Idol finalist Blake Lewis performs in concert on Friday, May 11, 2007 at Westlake Center in Seattle. Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 3:29 PM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 4:49 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Baby got back, and Seattle got Blake. "American Idol" finalist Blake Lewis returned to Seattle on Friday, playing a free concert before more than a thousand fans at Westlake Park, where he was joined onstage by Seattle's own Sir Mix-A-Lot. Mix-A-Lot sang his hit "Baby Got Back" over what many in the crowd came to see: Blake's beat-boxing. "Every time you watch 'American Idol,' you see people that can sing, and that's it," Mix-A-Lot said to wild applause. "This cat got real talent. ... He's the new king of Sea-town, baby." Lewis, 25, is one of three remaining contestants on Fox's wildly popular singing contest, and his homecoming plans included a parade in his suburban hometown of Bothell and the national anthem at the Mariners-Yankees game Friday night. He looked out on the crowd in the warm midday sunshine and said: "I'm speechless. Thank you guys for all the support." But Lewis directed most of his onstage banter at urging his fans to support local music, giving repeated shout-outs to rising Seattle hip-hop stars Blue Scholars and Common Market. "A lot's changed since I saw you last," Common Market's RA Scion said to him before unleashing a torrent of lyrics over Lewis' beat-boxing. Many in the crowd, populated largely by truant teenage girls, screamed and waved signs that read "Blaker Girls" or "We (heart) Blake." Blaire Ginnever, a 14-year-old eighth-grader, said she was skipping her lunch period and Spanish class at Villa Academy in Seattle. "Blake es muy bueno," she said. Her favorite part? "The beat-boxing - it's just, like, unique and nobody else can do it on the show." Ginnever's mom, Marilyn, was also in the crowd, and said she didn't mind that her daughter was missing school. "It's the end of the year, and this is big for Seattle," she said. "We follow the show. It's kind of a family event, and rooting for a hometown boy makes it special." City Councilwoman Jean Godden, who is old enough to remember a significant chunk of Seattle's musical history, read a proclamation declaring Friday "Blake Lewis Day" and placing the "reknowned beat-box musician" in a local tradition that includes Jimi Hendrix, Quincy Jones, Ann and Nancy Wilson, Nirvana, Modest Mouse and Death Cab for Cutie. Lauren Barberena, 26, said she had never watched "American Idol," but she bounced with the music and held her cell phone high in the air as Lewis, backed by local trio Ari Sawkadoria, sang Keane's "Somewhere Only We Know." "My friend's 11-year-old daughter asked me to call her," she said. "If it's good music, it's good music." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7440001.html	After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Actor John Schneider of the Dukes of Hazzard looks at a replica of the "General Lee", in this file photo from June 11, 2005. Story Published: May 10, 2007 at 7:45 AM PDT Story Updated: May 10, 2007 at 4:20 PM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - A nearly $10 million eBay bid for a car made famous by "The Dukes of Hazzard" seems to have vanished faster than the Duke boys escaping from the sheriff. The General Lee's owner - actor John Schneider, who played the blond heartthrob Bo Duke in the 1980s television series - is upset that the $9,900,500 winning bid appears to be a hoax. The bid set an eBay record last week. Schneider plans to list his 1969 Dodge Charger with a bricks-and-mortar auction firm that strictly screens buyers, and may file a lawsuit against the bidder, said Allen Stockman, who runs the star's Agoura Hills estate and has sold scripts, memorabilia and other items on eBay for three years. "If this guy was just doing it as a prank or to ruin someone else's chances, he deserves to be hit in the pocketbook," said Stockman, who gave the winning bidder a negative rating in eBay's feedback forum. Schneider, 47, was at a promotion in Las Vegas and could not be reached for comment. The winning bidder - identified on his eBay home page as William Fisher, or "fishbashr1" - did not return e-mails and did not answer the phone listed for his house in Laguna Hills. Schneider's plight is the most recent fraudulent bidding episode at eBay. In December, a Montreal man listed a 40-year-old acetate of "The Velvet Underground & Nico" by Andy Warhol. Bidding began at 99 cents, but after 10 days, 253 bids and numerous articles about the item in the media, the winning bid was $155,401. Within hours, the bid was determined to be a hoax and the item was relisted. In March, bids on a gas grill said to be owned by Red Sox slugger Manny Ramirez reached $99,999,999, the highest bid the Web site was technically capable of listing. EBay pulled the listing after the company couldn't verify the grill was owned by Ramirez. EBay spokeswoman Catherine England said the company doesn't keep track of how many winning bidders renege. "There are all sorts of reasons a transaction may fall through, and we have a claims process for both buyer and seller," England said. When bidding escalated on the General Lee, a customer service agent called Stockman and recommended that he only accept pre-qualified bidders who could prove that they had secured financing. But Stockman said he didn't have the time for credit or background checks. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7460787.html	Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question Story Published: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT Story Updated: May 11, 2007 at 7:51 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - The survival of a major "Lost" character was left in doubt this week in an episode that shot adrenaline into the plot of the ABC series but failed to give it a needed ratings boost. The Wednesday episode in which Locke (Terry O'Quinn) was shot, perhaps fatally, by Ben (Michael Emerson), the leader of "the Others," drew 12.1 million viewers. That's about the same sized audience the show has been attracting in recent weeks. That compares to the 22 million-plus "Lost" drew at its peak last season, its second. Still, the drama about plane-crash survivors on a mysterious island has been winning its 10 p.m. EDT time slot among the young adult viewers prized by advertisers. "Lost" also is building its audience within the hour, demonstrating that viewers who tune in like what they see. In this week's pivotal episode, the audience got a history lesson about Ben's troubled childhood and a clash between two island factions. Given Locke's importance to the show, the odds seem to be in his favor. But the producers have never been queasy about killing off characters who survived the crash but not the show's complex plot twists. ABC's recent announcement that the show will conclude in the 2009-10 season also might have fans wondering if Locke's shooting is a shocking early start to the show's ultimate resolution. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7429451.html	'American Idol' down to the final three | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'American Idol' down to the final three Story Published: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT Story Updated: May 9, 2007 at 7:47 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A kiss from Simon Cowell turned out to be a kiss goodbye. A week after so impressing the cantankerous Cowell that he kissed her, LaKisha Jones was eliminated Wednesday on ''American Idol.'' The Fox talent show is down to its final three contestants. A nervous Jones seemed to have an ominous feeling Wednesday. Host Ryan Seacrest noticed she was talking to herself during one of the commercial breaks, and she admitted to overanalyzing things. Performances of Barry Gibb songs the night before led to a particularly brutal week of Cowell criticism. ''No kiss tonight, baby,'' Cowell had said to Jones. He was even tougher on Blake Lewis, calling one of his takes ''absolutely terrible.'' But asked to choose whether Lewis or Jones would be going home Wednesday, Cowell correctly predicted the results from the 45 million votes. Jones, 27, grew up in Flint, Mich., and is the mother of a toddler. She began singing at age 5, has a passion for gospel but was formally trained in classical music. Tears streamed down her face as she said goodbye - but she stayed long enough to get a career kick-start from ''American Idol.'' Lewis, 25 and the only man left in the competition, overcame Cowell's attack. The fashion police may not forgive his choice of a t-shirt with a painted-on bowtie Wednesday. Lewis is from Bothell, Wash. He'll compete against 17-year-old Jordin Sparks of Glendale, Ariz., the youngest performer left, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, of Brentwood, Tenn. Doolittle, already a professional backup singer, was the first one given entrance into the group of three. Cowell had already predicted the night before that her performance had been enough to keep her in. Gibb, the former Bee Gee, sang his own ''To Love Somebody'' on Wednesday's show, which was padded with marketing opportunities. There was even a lengthy tie-in to an action movie that isn't debuting until next month, complete with a visit from Jessica Alba. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Jury acquits Spanaway man of bestiality charge Man killed by loose truck wheels on Interstate 5 Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Phony soldier leaves wallets empty, hearts broken "If it's not handled properly it's gonna kill you" 3-alarm fire guts auto shop in Tukwila Ken Schram: Living what they preach Students warned after home-invasion rape Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Shredded East German secret police files being reassembled by computer Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512467.html	Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Billy Corgan, singer of Smashing Pumpkins, performs on stage, October 15, 2000 in Zurich, Switzerland. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT ASHEVILLE, N.C. (AP) - The Smashing Pumpkins have announced they will give nine concerts in Asheville and eight in San Francisco this summer in the band's first residencies in more than a decade. The band will perform at the Orange Peel in Asheville on dates from June 23 to July 5, and at the historic Fillmore in San Francisco on dates from July 22 to August 1, it was announced Monday. According to information posted on the band's Web site, fans attending any of the shows are allowed to capture them with audio and video recorders. "They were looking for one West Coast venue and one East Coast venue," Liz Whalen of the Orange Peel told the Asheville Citizen-Times. She said the shows are the biggest event in the club's history and an entertainment milestone for the city in far western North Carolina. The Smashing Pumpkins last played a residency in 1994 in Chicago before the release of "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness." Leaders in the early 1990s alternative rock revolution, the Smashing Pumpkins broke up in 2000 after winning two Grammys and selling millions of albums. Band leader Billy Corgan announced about two years ago that he wanted the band to reunite. The band will perform live for the first time since December 2000 next week in Paris. A new album, "ZEITGEIST," is scheduled to be released in July. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512467.html	Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Billy Corgan, singer of Smashing Pumpkins, performs on stage, October 15, 2000 in Zurich, Switzerland. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT ASHEVILLE, N.C. (AP) - The Smashing Pumpkins have announced they will give nine concerts in Asheville and eight in San Francisco this summer in the band's first residencies in more than a decade. The band will perform at the Orange Peel in Asheville on dates from June 23 to July 5, and at the historic Fillmore in San Francisco on dates from July 22 to August 1, it was announced Monday. According to information posted on the band's Web site, fans attending any of the shows are allowed to capture them with audio and video recorders. "They were looking for one West Coast venue and one East Coast venue," Liz Whalen of the Orange Peel told the Asheville Citizen-Times. She said the shows are the biggest event in the club's history and an entertainment milestone for the city in far western North Carolina. The Smashing Pumpkins last played a residency in 1994 in Chicago before the release of "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness." Leaders in the early 1990s alternative rock revolution, the Smashing Pumpkins broke up in 2000 after winning two Grammys and selling millions of albums. Band leader Billy Corgan announced about two years ago that he wanted the band to reunite. The band will perform live for the first time since December 2000 next week in Paris. A new album, "ZEITGEIST," is scheduled to be released in July. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7485522.html	Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Even when he takes a huge fall, Spider-Man comes out on top. Sony's ''Spider-Man 3'' took in $60 million in its second weekend, a hefty 60 percent drop from its record debut a week earlier but good enough to easily outdistance the competition and remain the No. 1 movie, according to studio estimates Sunday. ''After a record-breaking opening weekend, to me this is an appropriate second-weekend drop,'' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Media By Numbers. ''Any studio would be happy to have a movie opening with $60 million, let alone a second weekend with $60 million.'' With $242.1 million domestically in just 10 days, ''Spider-Man 3'' continued to beat the box-office pace of its predecessors. After 10 days, 2002's ''Spider-Man'' had grossed $223 million, while 2004's ''Spider-Man 2'' had taken in $225 million. ''Spider-Man 3'' quickly became the year's top-grossing film, hurtling past ''300,'' the Warner Bros. battle epic that has taken in $208 million. Second-weekend drops for successful studio films typically are well below 50 percent. But ''Spider-Man 3'' shattered records with $151.1 million in its first weekend, making a big decline virtually inevitable since so many people already had seen the film. ''When you're in that stratosphere, we had to assume we would be in the range of a 60 percent drop,'' said Rory Bruer, head of distribution for Sony. The weekend's other new movies had fair to poor openings. Debuting in second place with $10 million was Fox Atomic's horror sequel ''28 Weeks Later,'' a follow up to ''28 Days Later'' that continues the story of a virus in Britain that turns people into raging, cannibalistic zombies. Universal's ''Georgia Rule,'' starring Lindsay Lohan, Jane Fonda and Felicity Huffman, opened at No. 3 with $5.9 million. Lohan plays a rebellious teen who's put under the charge of her no-nonsense grandma (Fonda). Lionsgate's ''Delta Farce'' premiered at No. 5 with $3.5 million. Larry the Cable Guy stars in the comedy about three weekend warriors mistakenly dumped in Mexico, where they take on a gang of bandits. The Weinstein Co. and MGM's workplace comedy ''The Ex'' tanked with $1.4 million, coming in at No. 12. The movie stars Zach Braff as a husband dueling with a co-worker who also is his wife's ex-boyfriend. ''Spider-Man 3'' made up for an otherwise soft crop of movies. The top-12 films took in $96.9 million, up 14 percent from the same weekend last year, when ''Mission: Impossible 3'' was No. 1 with $25 million and ''Poseidon'' debuted in second place with $22.2 million. Overseas, ''Spider-Man 3'' pulled in an additional $85.5 million for the weekend, raising its international total to $380 million and worldwide total to $622 million. The previous ''Spider-Man'' movies each took in about $800 million worldwide, a number ''Spider-Man 3'' should easily beat. ''Spider-Man 3'' has a shot at topping $1 billion worldwide, Bruer said. Only three other movies, ''Titanic,'' ''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest,'' have hit that mark. After two weekends of light competition, ''Spider-Man 3'' faces the summer's next heavy-hitter Friday with the debut of DreamWorks Animation's ''Shrek the Third,'' the latest adventure of the cartoon ogre. A week later, Disney's ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' sails into theaters, the Johnny Depp action comedy joining ''Spider-Man 3'' and ''Shrek the Third'' to set up what could be Hollywood's biggest Memorial Day weekend ever. Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Media By Numbers LLC. Final figures will be released Monday. 1. ''Spider-Man 3,'' $60 million. 2. ''28 Weeks Later,'' $10 million. 3. ''Georgia Rule,'' $5.9 million. 4. ''Disturbia,'' $4.8 million. 5. ''Delta Farce,'' $3.5 million. 6. ''Fracture,'' $2.9 million. 7. ''The Invisible,'' $2.2 million. 8. ''Hot Fuzz,'' $1.7 million. 9. ''Next,'' $1.604 million. 10. ''Meet the Robinsons,'' $1.6 million. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7485522.html	Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Even when he takes a huge fall, Spider-Man comes out on top. Sony's ''Spider-Man 3'' took in $60 million in its second weekend, a hefty 60 percent drop from its record debut a week earlier but good enough to easily outdistance the competition and remain the No. 1 movie, according to studio estimates Sunday. ''After a record-breaking opening weekend, to me this is an appropriate second-weekend drop,'' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Media By Numbers. ''Any studio would be happy to have a movie opening with $60 million, let alone a second weekend with $60 million.'' With $242.1 million domestically in just 10 days, ''Spider-Man 3'' continued to beat the box-office pace of its predecessors. After 10 days, 2002's ''Spider-Man'' had grossed $223 million, while 2004's ''Spider-Man 2'' had taken in $225 million. ''Spider-Man 3'' quickly became the year's top-grossing film, hurtling past ''300,'' the Warner Bros. battle epic that has taken in $208 million. Second-weekend drops for successful studio films typically are well below 50 percent. But ''Spider-Man 3'' shattered records with $151.1 million in its first weekend, making a big decline virtually inevitable since so many people already had seen the film. ''When you're in that stratosphere, we had to assume we would be in the range of a 60 percent drop,'' said Rory Bruer, head of distribution for Sony. The weekend's other new movies had fair to poor openings. Debuting in second place with $10 million was Fox Atomic's horror sequel ''28 Weeks Later,'' a follow up to ''28 Days Later'' that continues the story of a virus in Britain that turns people into raging, cannibalistic zombies. Universal's ''Georgia Rule,'' starring Lindsay Lohan, Jane Fonda and Felicity Huffman, opened at No. 3 with $5.9 million. Lohan plays a rebellious teen who's put under the charge of her no-nonsense grandma (Fonda). Lionsgate's ''Delta Farce'' premiered at No. 5 with $3.5 million. Larry the Cable Guy stars in the comedy about three weekend warriors mistakenly dumped in Mexico, where they take on a gang of bandits. The Weinstein Co. and MGM's workplace comedy ''The Ex'' tanked with $1.4 million, coming in at No. 12. The movie stars Zach Braff as a husband dueling with a co-worker who also is his wife's ex-boyfriend. ''Spider-Man 3'' made up for an otherwise soft crop of movies. The top-12 films took in $96.9 million, up 14 percent from the same weekend last year, when ''Mission: Impossible 3'' was No. 1 with $25 million and ''Poseidon'' debuted in second place with $22.2 million. Overseas, ''Spider-Man 3'' pulled in an additional $85.5 million for the weekend, raising its international total to $380 million and worldwide total to $622 million. The previous ''Spider-Man'' movies each took in about $800 million worldwide, a number ''Spider-Man 3'' should easily beat. ''Spider-Man 3'' has a shot at topping $1 billion worldwide, Bruer said. Only three other movies, ''Titanic,'' ''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest,'' have hit that mark. After two weekends of light competition, ''Spider-Man 3'' faces the summer's next heavy-hitter Friday with the debut of DreamWorks Animation's ''Shrek the Third,'' the latest adventure of the cartoon ogre. A week later, Disney's ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' sails into theaters, the Johnny Depp action comedy joining ''Spider-Man 3'' and ''Shrek the Third'' to set up what could be Hollywood's biggest Memorial Day weekend ever. Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Media By Numbers LLC. Final figures will be released Monday. 1. ''Spider-Man 3,'' $60 million. 2. ''28 Weeks Later,'' $10 million. 3. ''Georgia Rule,'' $5.9 million. 4. ''Disturbia,'' $4.8 million. 5. ''Delta Farce,'' $3.5 million. 6. ''Fracture,'' $2.9 million. 7. ''The Invisible,'' $2.2 million. 8. ''Hot Fuzz,'' $1.7 million. 9. ''Next,'' $1.604 million. 10. ''Meet the Robinsons,'' $1.6 million. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512502.html	ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - ABC's "Grey's Anatomy" spinoff will air next fall on an all-new Wednesday night schedule, one of 11 new series the network plans for next season. "Private Practice" features Dr. Addison Shepard, who leaves Seattle for work in Los Angeles. A special "Grey's Anatomy" that effectively served as the show's pilot was seen by 21 million people earlier this month. Veteran TV actors Merrin Dungey, Tim Daly, Taye Diggs and Amy Brenneman will join star Kate Walsh in "Private Practice," which will air at 9 p.m. Two other new series will air Wednesdays on ABC in the fall. "Pushing Daisies," described as a forensic fairy tale, features a boy who can touch dead people and bring them back to life. "Dirty Sexy Money" is a prime-time soap opera about a wealthy New York family. ABC also gave the go-ahead to "Cavemen," a comedy adapted from the Geico insurance commercials. The network canceled the comedies "George Lopez," "Help Me Help You" and "Knights of Prosperity." "What About Brian" did not make the cut, and ABC is still debating the future of "According to Jim," while leaving it off the fall schedule. The first prime-time series from Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions, "Oprah's Big Give," will debut in midseason. It's a reality series where contestants compete in philanthropy. In contrast to last year, when "Grey's Anatomy" made its successful switch to Thursday nights, ABC plans no major shifts of its existing series. "Men in Trees" moves to an earlier time slot on Friday nights. "Lost" will return in midseason, but ABC made no commitment Tuesday on where it will land on the schedule. Other new series that ABC plans for next season: -"Big Shots," a drama about four hard-charging friends who are dysfunctional CEOs. Dylan McDermott, Christopher Titus, Joshua Malina and Michael Vartan play the lead characters. -"Cashmere Mafia," ABC's attempt to inherit the "Sex and the City" mantle. Four women, friends since business school, juggle their personal and professional lives in New York. NBC has a similar new show - with three women. -"Eli Stone," a drama about a top lawyer in San Francisco who begins having visions because of a brain aneurysm. -"Women's Murder Club," based on James Patterson novels, is a drama about four women in San Francisco - a detective, district attorney, medical examiner and reporter - who work together to solve crimes. -"Carpoolers," a comedy about four men from different backgrounds who get together each day for some male bonding on the drive to work. -"Miss/Guided," a comedy about a former high school geek who returns to her alma mater as a guidance counselor, only to see an ex-cheerleader and former nemesis come back as an English teacher. -"Sam I Am," a comedy with Christina Applegate about a woman who awakes from a coma with no memory, only to find out she was a creep before. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512502.html	ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - ABC's "Grey's Anatomy" spinoff will air next fall on an all-new Wednesday night schedule, one of 11 new series the network plans for next season. "Private Practice" features Dr. Addison Shepard, who leaves Seattle for work in Los Angeles. A special "Grey's Anatomy" that effectively served as the show's pilot was seen by 21 million people earlier this month. Veteran TV actors Merrin Dungey, Tim Daly, Taye Diggs and Amy Brenneman will join star Kate Walsh in "Private Practice," which will air at 9 p.m. Two other new series will air Wednesdays on ABC in the fall. "Pushing Daisies," described as a forensic fairy tale, features a boy who can touch dead people and bring them back to life. "Dirty Sexy Money" is a prime-time soap opera about a wealthy New York family. ABC also gave the go-ahead to "Cavemen," a comedy adapted from the Geico insurance commercials. The network canceled the comedies "George Lopez," "Help Me Help You" and "Knights of Prosperity." "What About Brian" did not make the cut, and ABC is still debating the future of "According to Jim," while leaving it off the fall schedule. The first prime-time series from Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions, "Oprah's Big Give," will debut in midseason. It's a reality series where contestants compete in philanthropy. In contrast to last year, when "Grey's Anatomy" made its successful switch to Thursday nights, ABC plans no major shifts of its existing series. "Men in Trees" moves to an earlier time slot on Friday nights. "Lost" will return in midseason, but ABC made no commitment Tuesday on where it will land on the schedule. Other new series that ABC plans for next season: -"Big Shots," a drama about four hard-charging friends who are dysfunctional CEOs. Dylan McDermott, Christopher Titus, Joshua Malina and Michael Vartan play the lead characters. -"Cashmere Mafia," ABC's attempt to inherit the "Sex and the City" mantle. Four women, friends since business school, juggle their personal and professional lives in New York. NBC has a similar new show - with three women. -"Eli Stone," a drama about a top lawyer in San Francisco who begins having visions because of a brain aneurysm. -"Women's Murder Club," based on James Patterson novels, is a drama about four women in San Francisco - a detective, district attorney, medical examiner and reporter - who work together to solve crimes. -"Carpoolers," a comedy about four men from different backgrounds who get together each day for some male bonding on the drive to work. -"Miss/Guided," a comedy about a former high school geek who returns to her alma mater as a guidance counselor, only to see an ex-cheerleader and former nemesis come back as an English teacher. -"Sam I Am," a comedy with Christina Applegate about a woman who awakes from a coma with no memory, only to find out she was a creep before. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Fan ordered to stay away from Bullock Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Fan ordered to stay away from Bullock Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512542.html	'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) - At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. Last summer, the Glendale, Ariz., native tried out for the Fox hit in Los Angeles and didn't even make it past the first round. "I know she worked really hard to get in shape just to learn how to perform a little bit more," said Kris Siegrest, Sparks' personal trainer and a longtime family friend. "Even when she went the first time, I was shocked she didn't make it." But since impressing the judges a few months later with "Because You Loved Me," the 17-year-old is now the youngest of three remaining "Idol" hopefuls. She is competing against Blake Lewis, 25, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, to win the big prize. Siegrest said it is surreal that Sparks has to go out "incognito" when doing something as simple as cheering her younger brother, P.J., at a basketball game. "She wore baggy clothes and a cap. Even there she got recognized," Siegrest said. "I thought that was really cool in the mix of all the business, she wanted to watch her brother play a junior high game." The daughter of retired NFL player Phillippi Sparks, Sparks spent most of her childhood in Glendale, a Phoenix suburb. Singing was a passion from the beginning. Churchgoers and family were usually her only audience. Bobb Cooper, artistic director at Valley Youth Theatre in Phoenix, remembers a 13-year-old Sparks only being cast in ensemble roles, like a poppy in "The Wiz." "She really has matured at gaining control of her voice. She gets better every week," Cooper said. Siegrest said having a father who was a pro athlete should help Sparks deal with her growing fame. At an early age, she experienced what it was like being in the public eye. "There's some responsibility that comes along with that, and I think she's very aware of it," Siegrest said. Pandy Raye, Sparks' former guitar teacher, said the teen's family would make sure she stayed role-model material. "Every decision they make, they really take a lot of time to see 'OK, how is this going to affect her?' She's just so grounded," Raye said. During the last year, Sparks was home schooled so she could focus on music. In September 2006, she snagged the title "Arizona Idol," a competition put on by the local Fox affiliate, and a second chance to audition for the show. Glendale has been throwing support behind Sparks with elaborate, outdoor "American Idol" viewing parties at a local shopping complex. Since March 20, the city of about 245,000 has seen hundreds of people from all over the state turn out to watch Sparks on two 14-foot TVs. The city also has been distributing free "Glendale supports Jordin" posters at its visitor center. On Friday, about 5,000 people weathered triple-digit heat to glimpse Sparks during a hometown appearance. Leeann Corless, a 34-year-old single mom, and her 10-year-old son have attended every viewing party since April. She believes Lewis will be the next one shown the door. "I always thought it was going to be between Jordin and Melinda," said Corless. "Of course she's going to be the winner. She's the most outgoing and she's the most charitable person." The cheerful disposition is no act, according to Siegrest. "What you see when she speaks and is giddy and kind of funny and smiling all the time, that's Jordin," Siegrest said. "What you're seeing is really her. She's fun and not afraid to look funny." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512542.html	'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) - At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. Last summer, the Glendale, Ariz., native tried out for the Fox hit in Los Angeles and didn't even make it past the first round. "I know she worked really hard to get in shape just to learn how to perform a little bit more," said Kris Siegrest, Sparks' personal trainer and a longtime family friend. "Even when she went the first time, I was shocked she didn't make it." But since impressing the judges a few months later with "Because You Loved Me," the 17-year-old is now the youngest of three remaining "Idol" hopefuls. She is competing against Blake Lewis, 25, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, to win the big prize. Siegrest said it is surreal that Sparks has to go out "incognito" when doing something as simple as cheering her younger brother, P.J., at a basketball game. "She wore baggy clothes and a cap. Even there she got recognized," Siegrest said. "I thought that was really cool in the mix of all the business, she wanted to watch her brother play a junior high game." The daughter of retired NFL player Phillippi Sparks, Sparks spent most of her childhood in Glendale, a Phoenix suburb. Singing was a passion from the beginning. Churchgoers and family were usually her only audience. Bobb Cooper, artistic director at Valley Youth Theatre in Phoenix, remembers a 13-year-old Sparks only being cast in ensemble roles, like a poppy in "The Wiz." "She really has matured at gaining control of her voice. She gets better every week," Cooper said. Siegrest said having a father who was a pro athlete should help Sparks deal with her growing fame. At an early age, she experienced what it was like being in the public eye. "There's some responsibility that comes along with that, and I think she's very aware of it," Siegrest said. Pandy Raye, Sparks' former guitar teacher, said the teen's family would make sure she stayed role-model material. "Every decision they make, they really take a lot of time to see 'OK, how is this going to affect her?' She's just so grounded," Raye said. During the last year, Sparks was home schooled so she could focus on music. In September 2006, she snagged the title "Arizona Idol," a competition put on by the local Fox affiliate, and a second chance to audition for the show. Glendale has been throwing support behind Sparks with elaborate, outdoor "American Idol" viewing parties at a local shopping complex. Since March 20, the city of about 245,000 has seen hundreds of people from all over the state turn out to watch Sparks on two 14-foot TVs. The city also has been distributing free "Glendale supports Jordin" posters at its visitor center. On Friday, about 5,000 people weathered triple-digit heat to glimpse Sparks during a hometown appearance. Leeann Corless, a 34-year-old single mom, and her 10-year-old son have attended every viewing party since April. She believes Lewis will be the next one shown the door. "I always thought it was going to be between Jordin and Melinda," said Corless. "Of course she's going to be the winner. She's the most outgoing and she's the most charitable person." The cheerful disposition is no act, according to Siegrest. "What you see when she speaks and is giddy and kind of funny and smiling all the time, that's Jordin," Siegrest said. "What you're seeing is really her. She's fun and not afraid to look funny." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494122.html	Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea "Live8" concert organizer Bob Geldof speaks during a news conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 2, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) - Bob Geldof, who organized the Live Aid and Live 8 benefit concerts, criticized the Live Earth music events Al Gore is putting together this summer, saying they lack a specific goal, according to a Dutch newspaper report Saturday. The Live Earth concerts will be held in cities around the world on July 7, with proceeds funding a yet-to-be-named foundation to combat climate change, under Gore's direction. The shows will take place in London; New York; Tokyo; Shanghai, China; Johannesburg, South Africa; Sydney, Australia; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Organizers have also promised an event in Antarctica. "I hope they're a success," De Volkskrant newspaper quoted Geldof as saying in an interview. "But why is (Gore) actually organizing them? To make us aware of the greenhouse effect? Everybody's known about that problem for years. We are all (expletive) conscious of global warming," he said. Geldof, former front-man of The Boomtown Rats, organized the mammoth Live Aid concerts in 1985 to benefit victims of famine in Ethiopia and the Live 8 concerts in 2005 for African debt relief. He has dedicated much of his career to advocating on behalf of humanitarian causes. "I would only organize (Live Earth) if I could go on stage and announce concrete environmental measures from the American presidential candidates, Congress or major corporations," he told the newspaper. "They haven't got those guarantees, so it's just an enormous pop concert or the umpteenth time that, say, Madonna or Coldplay get up on stage." Geldof also criticized the former vice president's choice of the name Live Earth. "It sounds like Live 8," he told the paper. "We're getting lots of responses from people who think we are organizing it." Gore could not immediately be reached Saturday for comment on the newspaper report. He was in Rio de Janeiro, where he implored people to attend that city's Live Earth show. "An estimated 2 billion people will be watching around the world, but the single largest event anywhere in the world will be here in Rio. I want to invite every person who cares about the environment in Brazil to come to the event here in Rio," Gore said. Gore said the concerts would mark the beginning of multiyear campaign to fight global warming. He said the concert was a fitting way to kick off such a campaign because "the task of saving the global environment is a task we should all approach with a sense of joy." Geldof also could not be reached to confirm the remarks, made at a conference in Budapest, Hungary. The Volkskrant is one of the largest national papers in the Netherlands. The headliners of the London Live Earth show at Wembley stadium are expected to be Madonna, the Beastie Boys, the Black Eyed Peas, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Keane and Foo Fighters. At the U.S. concert, to be held at Giants Stadium outside New York, Bon Jovi, the Dave Matthews Band, Kanye West, Rihanna, John Mayer, the Smashing Pumpkins and Fall Out Boy are slated to perform. The concerts will be broadcast in the U.S. by General Electric Co.'s NBC network and on more than 120 networks around the world, and streamed live online. Gore wrote the best-seller "An Inconvenient Truth," and later starred in a documentary film of the same name that popularized the science showing a link between human carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494122.html	Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea "Live8" concert organizer Bob Geldof speaks during a news conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 2, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) - Bob Geldof, who organized the Live Aid and Live 8 benefit concerts, criticized the Live Earth music events Al Gore is putting together this summer, saying they lack a specific goal, according to a Dutch newspaper report Saturday. The Live Earth concerts will be held in cities around the world on July 7, with proceeds funding a yet-to-be-named foundation to combat climate change, under Gore's direction. The shows will take place in London; New York; Tokyo; Shanghai, China; Johannesburg, South Africa; Sydney, Australia; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Organizers have also promised an event in Antarctica. "I hope they're a success," De Volkskrant newspaper quoted Geldof as saying in an interview. "But why is (Gore) actually organizing them? To make us aware of the greenhouse effect? Everybody's known about that problem for years. We are all (expletive) conscious of global warming," he said. Geldof, former front-man of The Boomtown Rats, organized the mammoth Live Aid concerts in 1985 to benefit victims of famine in Ethiopia and the Live 8 concerts in 2005 for African debt relief. He has dedicated much of his career to advocating on behalf of humanitarian causes. "I would only organize (Live Earth) if I could go on stage and announce concrete environmental measures from the American presidential candidates, Congress or major corporations," he told the newspaper. "They haven't got those guarantees, so it's just an enormous pop concert or the umpteenth time that, say, Madonna or Coldplay get up on stage." Geldof also criticized the former vice president's choice of the name Live Earth. "It sounds like Live 8," he told the paper. "We're getting lots of responses from people who think we are organizing it." Gore could not immediately be reached Saturday for comment on the newspaper report. He was in Rio de Janeiro, where he implored people to attend that city's Live Earth show. "An estimated 2 billion people will be watching around the world, but the single largest event anywhere in the world will be here in Rio. I want to invite every person who cares about the environment in Brazil to come to the event here in Rio," Gore said. Gore said the concerts would mark the beginning of multiyear campaign to fight global warming. He said the concert was a fitting way to kick off such a campaign because "the task of saving the global environment is a task we should all approach with a sense of joy." Geldof also could not be reached to confirm the remarks, made at a conference in Budapest, Hungary. The Volkskrant is one of the largest national papers in the Netherlands. The headliners of the London Live Earth show at Wembley stadium are expected to be Madonna, the Beastie Boys, the Black Eyed Peas, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Keane and Foo Fighters. At the U.S. concert, to be held at Giants Stadium outside New York, Bon Jovi, the Dave Matthews Band, Kanye West, Rihanna, John Mayer, the Smashing Pumpkins and Fall Out Boy are slated to perform. The concerts will be broadcast in the U.S. by General Electric Co.'s NBC network and on more than 120 networks around the world, and streamed live online. Gore wrote the best-seller "An Inconvenient Truth," and later starred in a documentary film of the same name that popularized the science showing a link between human carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494212.html	India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Richard Gere, left, hugs and kisses Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in New Delhi, India, in this March 15, 2007, file photo. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT NEW DELHI (AP) - Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty appealed to the Supreme Court Monday to quash an arrest warrant issued against her and Hollywood star Richard Gere for violating the country's obscenity laws, a media report said. The court was scheduled to hear the appeal Tuesday, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Court officials could not immediately be reached and a spokesman for Shetty declined to comment. A judge in the city of Jaipur issued the warrant last month for both Gere and Shetty after a kiss at a public AIDS awareness event in New Delhi. The public display of affection drew an outcry among Hindu hard-liners, with rallies against the actors held in several cities. But the judge's arrest order also drew harsh criticism in India, with some lawyers saying it had no legal merit and made the country look ridiculous. Gere, 57, apologized for any offense he may have caused in India, where public displays of affection are largely taboo. But he also said the whole controversy was manufactured by a small hardline political party. Gere, who left shortly after the kiss, is a frequent visitor to India, promoting health issues and the cause of Tibetan exiles. The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, has his headquarters in the northern Indian town of Dharmsala. Shetty, a well-known actress in India, became an international star after her appearance on the British reality show "Celebrity Big Brother." A fellow contestant, Jade Goody, sparked international headlines by allegedly making racist comments to Shetty, 31. The comments sparked public outrage in Britain and India and Shetty went on to win the competition. The judge who issued the warrant has since been transferred from his post. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494212.html	India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Richard Gere, left, hugs and kisses Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in New Delhi, India, in this March 15, 2007, file photo. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT NEW DELHI (AP) - Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty appealed to the Supreme Court Monday to quash an arrest warrant issued against her and Hollywood star Richard Gere for violating the country's obscenity laws, a media report said. The court was scheduled to hear the appeal Tuesday, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Court officials could not immediately be reached and a spokesman for Shetty declined to comment. A judge in the city of Jaipur issued the warrant last month for both Gere and Shetty after a kiss at a public AIDS awareness event in New Delhi. The public display of affection drew an outcry among Hindu hard-liners, with rallies against the actors held in several cities. But the judge's arrest order also drew harsh criticism in India, with some lawyers saying it had no legal merit and made the country look ridiculous. Gere, 57, apologized for any offense he may have caused in India, where public displays of affection are largely taboo. But he also said the whole controversy was manufactured by a small hardline political party. Gere, who left shortly after the kiss, is a frequent visitor to India, promoting health issues and the cause of Tibetan exiles. The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, has his headquarters in the northern Indian town of Dharmsala. Shetty, a well-known actress in India, became an international star after her appearance on the British reality show "Celebrity Big Brother." A fellow contestant, Jade Goody, sparked international headlines by allegedly making racist comments to Shetty, 31. The comments sparked public outrage in Britain and India and Shetty went on to win the competition. The judge who issued the warrant has since been transferred from his post. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512587.html	Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. Dr. Charles Sophy has been seeing Hilton, 26, for the past eight months and has talked with her several times since her May 4 hearing for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case, according to court papers. Sophy said Hilton needs time to recover from the shock of receiving jail time before testifying in a civil case brought against her by actress and diamond heiress Zeta Graff. Messages left with Hilton's spokesman and lawyer weren't immediately returned early Tuesday. In court papers filed Monday, Sophy said Hilton is "distraught and traumatized as a consequence of the findings at the May 4 hearing ... and her fear of incarceration." "At this point in time," he continued, "Ms. Hilton cannot effectively respond to examination as a witness or provide any significant input into her defense." Graff filed a $10 million lawsuit against Hilton in 2005, claiming the reality TV star spread "vicious lies" about her. Hilton has denied that she was behind a report alleging Graff once tried to grab a necklace worth $4 million from her throat. Superior Court Judge Linda K. Lefkowitz postponed the trial to August. It had been scheduled to begin this month. Hilton and her pal Nicole Richie star on "The Simple Life," which throws them into everyday situations. After famously feuding and filming their parts separately last season, the celebutantes have reunited as camp counselors for the show's upcoming installment on the Comcast Corp.-operated E! network. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512587.html	Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. Dr. Charles Sophy has been seeing Hilton, 26, for the past eight months and has talked with her several times since her May 4 hearing for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case, according to court papers. Sophy said Hilton needs time to recover from the shock of receiving jail time before testifying in a civil case brought against her by actress and diamond heiress Zeta Graff. Messages left with Hilton's spokesman and lawyer weren't immediately returned early Tuesday. In court papers filed Monday, Sophy said Hilton is "distraught and traumatized as a consequence of the findings at the May 4 hearing ... and her fear of incarceration." "At this point in time," he continued, "Ms. Hilton cannot effectively respond to examination as a witness or provide any significant input into her defense." Graff filed a $10 million lawsuit against Hilton in 2005, claiming the reality TV star spread "vicious lies" about her. Hilton has denied that she was behind a report alleging Graff once tried to grab a necklace worth $4 million from her throat. Superior Court Judge Linda K. Lefkowitz postponed the trial to August. It had been scheduled to begin this month. Hilton and her pal Nicole Richie star on "The Simple Life," which throws them into everyday situations. After famously feuding and filming their parts separately last season, the celebutantes have reunited as camp counselors for the show's upcoming installment on the Comcast Corp.-operated E! network. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497152.html	Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - "Hands Held High," one of the most powerful songs on Linkin Park's new album, includes lyrics about bombs blowing up mosques, a bumbling leader, high gas prices and general world confusion - an obvious missive against President Bush and the war in Iraq. Or maybe not. Tell that interpretation to Mike Shinoda, the rapper/musician who writes most of the lyrics for the blockbuster band, and you'll get an earful on making assumptions about the group's most adventurous album to date, "Minutes to Midnight." "We're not a political band. And I see some of the stuff that you're referring to ... as more social," says Shinoda, showing a glint of frustration as he and drummer Rob Bourdon sit in a studio, taking a break from rehearsals for upcoming shows. "I tend to be drawn towards people, the interaction with people and how emotional events make you feel, and because we're all older, I think that we are more aware of those things," says Shinoda, 30. "This record ... it's aware of what's going on inside and aware to a large degree on what's going on outside ourselves." The lyrics on the album, out Tuesday, are not the only signs of the band's development since the release of 2003's multiplatinum "Meteora." Once the leaders of rap-rock fusion, you'll hear less of Shinoda's signature rhymes on this record (he does sing on one track). And while lead singer Chester Bennington's screams are still as piercing as ever, they're less likely to be supported by the kind of music that defined the band as nu-metal. Some songs sound very pop, with arrangements that could even be described as mellow and tender. "We've taken a lot of risks on this record because of the stylistic changes that we've made," concedes the 31-year-old Bennington. "The one thing that people will notice the most is that there's not a nu-metal feel, but a lot of what we do is very Linkin Park ... We felt like we had done something very unique." "There's more maturity (but) I think it delivers the same emotional impact that they always have," says Mike Rich, senior vice president and general manager of AOL Entertainment, for which the band taped a raucous concert on Friday night. It was to premiere on the Web portal Monday. Doing something unique was an important goal for the band on "Minutes to Midnight." The six-member group had sold 10 million copies of their 2000 debut, "Hybrid Theory," and then another four million with "Meteora." Both albums explored feelings of frustration and fury with a mix of rock, hip-hop and metal. (The band also sold millions with its remix album, "Reanimation," and its mash-up record with Jay-Z, "Collision Course" - not including side projects such as Shinoda's successful group Fort Minor.) To help with their evolution, the group enlisted Grammy-winning producer Rick Rubin. They were longtime fans of Rubin, whose credits in the past year included Tom Petty, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the Dixie Chicks and Slayer. "He suggested that we forget about what we think Linkin Park is supposed to sound like and just write whatever type of music we were inspired by at the moment," says Bourdon, 28. "It was really freeing." And many people will say "Minutes to Midnight" doesn't sound like Linkin Park. "The songs we felt strongly about have more melodies," says Bennington. "and those are the songs that turned up on the record." Then there's the content. Although Shinoda stresses that it's not a political album, the band references the nation's turmoil, from broken levees on "The Little Things Give You Away" to bitterness over leaders on "No More Sorrow." "We've always just stuck true to the music that we felt like making," says Bourdon. "If we were to try and go make the trilogy album for us, it wouldn't have felt right to us, it would have been like we were trying to be something that we're not." The band knows that some fans will want to hear a retread of their past sound. "We've gotten a lot of really positive response from fans, critics," says Bennington. "We've also gotten some feedback that's just like - I think it's going to take a while for some people to wrap their heads around what we've done." But the band hopes that once fans hear the music, they'll realize Linkin Park has changed for the better. "We hope that a lot of our fans are on the same page, and if they're not on the same page, that's fine too, maybe they will be later, maybe not, but we'll still be playing this album, we'll still be playing the other albums," says Shinoda. "And whoever wants to come the show is invited." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497152.html	Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - "Hands Held High," one of the most powerful songs on Linkin Park's new album, includes lyrics about bombs blowing up mosques, a bumbling leader, high gas prices and general world confusion - an obvious missive against President Bush and the war in Iraq. Or maybe not. Tell that interpretation to Mike Shinoda, the rapper/musician who writes most of the lyrics for the blockbuster band, and you'll get an earful on making assumptions about the group's most adventurous album to date, "Minutes to Midnight." "We're not a political band. And I see some of the stuff that you're referring to ... as more social," says Shinoda, showing a glint of frustration as he and drummer Rob Bourdon sit in a studio, taking a break from rehearsals for upcoming shows. "I tend to be drawn towards people, the interaction with people and how emotional events make you feel, and because we're all older, I think that we are more aware of those things," says Shinoda, 30. "This record ... it's aware of what's going on inside and aware to a large degree on what's going on outside ourselves." The lyrics on the album, out Tuesday, are not the only signs of the band's development since the release of 2003's multiplatinum "Meteora." Once the leaders of rap-rock fusion, you'll hear less of Shinoda's signature rhymes on this record (he does sing on one track). And while lead singer Chester Bennington's screams are still as piercing as ever, they're less likely to be supported by the kind of music that defined the band as nu-metal. Some songs sound very pop, with arrangements that could even be described as mellow and tender. "We've taken a lot of risks on this record because of the stylistic changes that we've made," concedes the 31-year-old Bennington. "The one thing that people will notice the most is that there's not a nu-metal feel, but a lot of what we do is very Linkin Park ... We felt like we had done something very unique." "There's more maturity (but) I think it delivers the same emotional impact that they always have," says Mike Rich, senior vice president and general manager of AOL Entertainment, for which the band taped a raucous concert on Friday night. It was to premiere on the Web portal Monday. Doing something unique was an important goal for the band on "Minutes to Midnight." The six-member group had sold 10 million copies of their 2000 debut, "Hybrid Theory," and then another four million with "Meteora." Both albums explored feelings of frustration and fury with a mix of rock, hip-hop and metal. (The band also sold millions with its remix album, "Reanimation," and its mash-up record with Jay-Z, "Collision Course" - not including side projects such as Shinoda's successful group Fort Minor.) To help with their evolution, the group enlisted Grammy-winning producer Rick Rubin. They were longtime fans of Rubin, whose credits in the past year included Tom Petty, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the Dixie Chicks and Slayer. "He suggested that we forget about what we think Linkin Park is supposed to sound like and just write whatever type of music we were inspired by at the moment," says Bourdon, 28. "It was really freeing." And many people will say "Minutes to Midnight" doesn't sound like Linkin Park. "The songs we felt strongly about have more melodies," says Bennington. "and those are the songs that turned up on the record." Then there's the content. Although Shinoda stresses that it's not a political album, the band references the nation's turmoil, from broken levees on "The Little Things Give You Away" to bitterness over leaders on "No More Sorrow." "We've always just stuck true to the music that we felt like making," says Bourdon. "If we were to try and go make the trilogy album for us, it wouldn't have felt right to us, it would have been like we were trying to be something that we're not." The band knows that some fans will want to hear a retread of their past sound. "We've gotten a lot of really positive response from fans, critics," says Bennington. "We've also gotten some feedback that's just like - I think it's going to take a while for some people to wrap their heads around what we've done." But the band hopes that once fans hear the music, they'll realize Linkin Park has changed for the better. "We hope that a lot of our fans are on the same page, and if they're not on the same page, that's fine too, maybe they will be later, maybe not, but we'll still be playing this album, we'll still be playing the other albums," says Shinoda. "And whoever wants to come the show is invited." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512647.html	'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT By CHRISTY LEMIRE, AP Movie Critic "Shrek the Third" begins with a death, and from there the movie itself steadily dies. The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Thankfully, as the films go along, they rely less on gratuitous pop-culture references. And visually this "Shrek" is more dazzling than ever, especially in the realistic background details. The water looks watery and the sand looks sandy and the trees look so lush and leafy you could practically jump out of your seat and climb into one of them. By now it's probably easy for all of us to take for granted how far CGI technology has come, and it's worth stopping to appreciate for a moment. But part three also lacks the zip of its predecessors; it feels draggy and, at the same time, rushed. (At 86 minutes, it's also the shortest film in the series.) Except for a few moments here and there, such as Prince Charming's gleefully corny stage productions and a Gingerbread Man flashback montage, much of the original sense of ingenious fun is gone. It doesn't help that so many tired "Shrek" wannabes, like "Hoodwinked" and "Happily N'Ever After," have been trotted out in recent years, making the real thing feel just as hackneyed. Chris Miller, previously a story artist, co-directed with animator Raman Hui. About a half-dozen people are credited as having contributed to the script, including Andrew Adamson, who directed the first two "Shrek" flicks. So there is a sense of consistency - it just doesn't feel all that fresh anymore. This time, the lovably cranky ogre Shrek (voiced reliably as always by Mike Myers) struggles with the prospect of becoming king of Far, Far Away after the death of King Harold, the father of his bride, Fiona (Cameron Diaz). He'd rather stay home in the swamp, lazing around all day. (Why Fiona can't take over in a fairy-tale land where the all the other rules have been upended is never addressed. She is the more even-tempered and levelheaded of the two, after all. Perhaps if Hillary were president ....) Anyway, Shrek sets out with his chatty sidekick Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and the suave Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas, still an adorable scene-stealer) to find the only other possible heir to the throne: the nerdy, insecure Artie, Fiona's teenage cousin, who is voiced by Justin Timberlake and looks like Corey Feldman. Artie is always on the receiving end of Lancelot's athletic jousts and is otherwise the butt of everyone's jokes at his medieval high school - the irony being, of course, that Timberlake has long been the coolest kid in the class. So when Shrek and his pals show up and offer him the kingdom, he's only to happy to take it. At first. Meanwhile, with hubby away, Fiona is left to defend the castle from Prince Charming (Rupert Everett), the vain former suitor she once jilted who has now come back to stage a bloody coup with a posse of vanquished villains (Captain Hook, the Evil Queen, etc.). Fiona - who's pregnant with the baby Shrek isn't sure he's ready for - gets some unexpected help on her end from longtime damsels in distress Snow White (Amy Poehler), Cinderella (Amy Sedaris), Rapunzel (Maya Rudolph) and Sleeping Beauty (Cheri Oteri), as well as her mother, Queen Lillian (Julie Andrews). It's a clever idea to have these characters transcend their stereotypes, but with the exception of Poehler's demanding diva, they all feel tossed in and underused. Like "Spider-Man 3," "Shrek the Third" throws more at us - including plenty of barf and flatulence jokes for the kids - but too little of it actually sticks. "Shrek the Third," a Paramount Pictures release, is rated PG for some crude humor, suggestive content and swashbuckling action. Running time: 86 minutes. Two stars out of four. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512647.html	'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT By CHRISTY LEMIRE, AP Movie Critic "Shrek the Third" begins with a death, and from there the movie itself steadily dies. The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Thankfully, as the films go along, they rely less on gratuitous pop-culture references. And visually this "Shrek" is more dazzling than ever, especially in the realistic background details. The water looks watery and the sand looks sandy and the trees look so lush and leafy you could practically jump out of your seat and climb into one of them. By now it's probably easy for all of us to take for granted how far CGI technology has come, and it's worth stopping to appreciate for a moment. But part three also lacks the zip of its predecessors; it feels draggy and, at the same time, rushed. (At 86 minutes, it's also the shortest film in the series.) Except for a few moments here and there, such as Prince Charming's gleefully corny stage productions and a Gingerbread Man flashback montage, much of the original sense of ingenious fun is gone. It doesn't help that so many tired "Shrek" wannabes, like "Hoodwinked" and "Happily N'Ever After," have been trotted out in recent years, making the real thing feel just as hackneyed. Chris Miller, previously a story artist, co-directed with animator Raman Hui. About a half-dozen people are credited as having contributed to the script, including Andrew Adamson, who directed the first two "Shrek" flicks. So there is a sense of consistency - it just doesn't feel all that fresh anymore. This time, the lovably cranky ogre Shrek (voiced reliably as always by Mike Myers) struggles with the prospect of becoming king of Far, Far Away after the death of King Harold, the father of his bride, Fiona (Cameron Diaz). He'd rather stay home in the swamp, lazing around all day. (Why Fiona can't take over in a fairy-tale land where the all the other rules have been upended is never addressed. She is the more even-tempered and levelheaded of the two, after all. Perhaps if Hillary were president ....) Anyway, Shrek sets out with his chatty sidekick Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and the suave Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas, still an adorable scene-stealer) to find the only other possible heir to the throne: the nerdy, insecure Artie, Fiona's teenage cousin, who is voiced by Justin Timberlake and looks like Corey Feldman. Artie is always on the receiving end of Lancelot's athletic jousts and is otherwise the butt of everyone's jokes at his medieval high school - the irony being, of course, that Timberlake has long been the coolest kid in the class. So when Shrek and his pals show up and offer him the kingdom, he's only to happy to take it. At first. Meanwhile, with hubby away, Fiona is left to defend the castle from Prince Charming (Rupert Everett), the vain former suitor she once jilted who has now come back to stage a bloody coup with a posse of vanquished villains (Captain Hook, the Evil Queen, etc.). Fiona - who's pregnant with the baby Shrek isn't sure he's ready for - gets some unexpected help on her end from longtime damsels in distress Snow White (Amy Poehler), Cinderella (Amy Sedaris), Rapunzel (Maya Rudolph) and Sleeping Beauty (Cheri Oteri), as well as her mother, Queen Lillian (Julie Andrews). It's a clever idea to have these characters transcend their stereotypes, but with the exception of Poehler's demanding diva, they all feel tossed in and underused. Like "Spider-Man 3," "Shrek the Third" throws more at us - including plenty of barf and flatulence jokes for the kids - but too little of it actually sticks. "Shrek the Third," a Paramount Pictures release, is rated PG for some crude humor, suggestive content and swashbuckling action. Running time: 86 minutes. Two stars out of four. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497287.html	Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The body count for "The Sopranos" had a major bump Sunday as this HBO mob drama races toward its own termination. (Spoiler alert: If you plan to watch the episode later and don't want to learn the newest casualty, stop reading now.) With the series' conclusion just three episodes away (on June 10), this week's victim was Christopher Moltisanti, nephew of New Jersey mob boss Tony Soprano and, until lately, Tony's presumed successor. Death resulted from a car crash with Christopher at the wheel, but Tony, by then fed up with his destructive behavior, made sure the accident was decisive. It was early in the episode that Christopher (Michael Imperioli) and Tony (James Gandolfini) were returning from Manhattan, where they had a contentious meeting with New York boss Phil Leotardo. Barreling along a deserted New Jersey highway, the two of them groused about the deal going sour. Meanwhile, Christopher kept taking his eyes off the road to fine-tune his sound system (which notably was playing "Comfortably Numb" from the soundtrack for the recent film "The Departed"). Then his sport utility vehicle abruptly crossed the centerline. Christopher veered off the road to miss an oncoming car and crashed down a hill. Tony was banged up, but Christopher was in far more serious condition. Having suffered internal injuries, he was spitting up blood and gasping for breath. He pleaded for help. But before Tony could dial 911, the dazed Christopher added, as if about to face a DUI charge, "I'll never pass the drug test. Call me a taxi." Feeling betrayed yet again by Christopher (who had routinely vowed that he was drug-free), Tony made a fateful decision: It was time to solve this personnel problem. Tony pinched Christopher's nose, guaranteeing he would smother, and, looking comfortably numb, Christopher faded away. This short interlude led an hour that predominantly addressed the effect of Christopher's death on his family, the crew and Tony in particular. Played by Imperioli since "The Sopranos" premiered in 1999, Christopher was headstrong and homicidal, self-involved and erratic, all faults that were enhanced by his alcohol and drug addictions. Having collected many dangerous enemies (including Leotardo), Christopher was widely expected by "Sopranos" fans to meet a violent demise by the series' end. The circumstances and timing, however, were a surprise - as well as Tony's mixed reaction. Despite suffering pain, loss and guilt from Christopher's death, Tony also felt grateful relief from a burden he accurately described to his psychiatrist, Dr. Melfi, as "a weak, lying drug addict who fantasized about my downfall." At the end of the hour, Tony, who by then had bolted for a private getaway to Las Vegas, was watching the sun come up across the desert while, in a peyote haze, he bellowed out, "I get it!" Viewers were left to ponder just what it was he got. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497287.html	Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The body count for "The Sopranos" had a major bump Sunday as this HBO mob drama races toward its own termination. (Spoiler alert: If you plan to watch the episode later and don't want to learn the newest casualty, stop reading now.) With the series' conclusion just three episodes away (on June 10), this week's victim was Christopher Moltisanti, nephew of New Jersey mob boss Tony Soprano and, until lately, Tony's presumed successor. Death resulted from a car crash with Christopher at the wheel, but Tony, by then fed up with his destructive behavior, made sure the accident was decisive. It was early in the episode that Christopher (Michael Imperioli) and Tony (James Gandolfini) were returning from Manhattan, where they had a contentious meeting with New York boss Phil Leotardo. Barreling along a deserted New Jersey highway, the two of them groused about the deal going sour. Meanwhile, Christopher kept taking his eyes off the road to fine-tune his sound system (which notably was playing "Comfortably Numb" from the soundtrack for the recent film "The Departed"). Then his sport utility vehicle abruptly crossed the centerline. Christopher veered off the road to miss an oncoming car and crashed down a hill. Tony was banged up, but Christopher was in far more serious condition. Having suffered internal injuries, he was spitting up blood and gasping for breath. He pleaded for help. But before Tony could dial 911, the dazed Christopher added, as if about to face a DUI charge, "I'll never pass the drug test. Call me a taxi." Feeling betrayed yet again by Christopher (who had routinely vowed that he was drug-free), Tony made a fateful decision: It was time to solve this personnel problem. Tony pinched Christopher's nose, guaranteeing he would smother, and, looking comfortably numb, Christopher faded away. This short interlude led an hour that predominantly addressed the effect of Christopher's death on his family, the crew and Tony in particular. Played by Imperioli since "The Sopranos" premiered in 1999, Christopher was headstrong and homicidal, self-involved and erratic, all faults that were enhanced by his alcohol and drug addictions. Having collected many dangerous enemies (including Leotardo), Christopher was widely expected by "Sopranos" fans to meet a violent demise by the series' end. The circumstances and timing, however, were a surprise - as well as Tony's mixed reaction. Despite suffering pain, loss and guilt from Christopher's death, Tony also felt grateful relief from a burden he accurately described to his psychiatrist, Dr. Melfi, as "a weak, lying drug addict who fantasized about my downfall." At the end of the hour, Tony, who by then had bolted for a private getaway to Las Vegas, was watching the sun come up across the desert while, in a peyote haze, he bellowed out, "I get it!" Viewers were left to ponder just what it was he got. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512467.html	Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Billy Corgan, singer of Smashing Pumpkins, performs on stage, October 15, 2000 in Zurich, Switzerland. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT ASHEVILLE, N.C. (AP) - The Smashing Pumpkins have announced they will give nine concerts in Asheville and eight in San Francisco this summer in the band's first residencies in more than a decade. The band will perform at the Orange Peel in Asheville on dates from June 23 to July 5, and at the historic Fillmore in San Francisco on dates from July 22 to August 1, it was announced Monday. According to information posted on the band's Web site, fans attending any of the shows are allowed to capture them with audio and video recorders. "They were looking for one West Coast venue and one East Coast venue," Liz Whalen of the Orange Peel told the Asheville Citizen-Times. She said the shows are the biggest event in the club's history and an entertainment milestone for the city in far western North Carolina. The Smashing Pumpkins last played a residency in 1994 in Chicago before the release of "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness." Leaders in the early 1990s alternative rock revolution, the Smashing Pumpkins broke up in 2000 after winning two Grammys and selling millions of albums. Band leader Billy Corgan announced about two years ago that he wanted the band to reunite. The band will perform live for the first time since December 2000 next week in Paris. A new album, "ZEITGEIST," is scheduled to be released in July. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512467.html	Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Billy Corgan, singer of Smashing Pumpkins, performs on stage, October 15, 2000 in Zurich, Switzerland. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT ASHEVILLE, N.C. (AP) - The Smashing Pumpkins have announced they will give nine concerts in Asheville and eight in San Francisco this summer in the band's first residencies in more than a decade. The band will perform at the Orange Peel in Asheville on dates from June 23 to July 5, and at the historic Fillmore in San Francisco on dates from July 22 to August 1, it was announced Monday. According to information posted on the band's Web site, fans attending any of the shows are allowed to capture them with audio and video recorders. "They were looking for one West Coast venue and one East Coast venue," Liz Whalen of the Orange Peel told the Asheville Citizen-Times. She said the shows are the biggest event in the club's history and an entertainment milestone for the city in far western North Carolina. The Smashing Pumpkins last played a residency in 1994 in Chicago before the release of "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness." Leaders in the early 1990s alternative rock revolution, the Smashing Pumpkins broke up in 2000 after winning two Grammys and selling millions of albums. Band leader Billy Corgan announced about two years ago that he wanted the band to reunite. The band will perform live for the first time since December 2000 next week in Paris. A new album, "ZEITGEIST," is scheduled to be released in July. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7485522.html	Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Even when he takes a huge fall, Spider-Man comes out on top. Sony's ''Spider-Man 3'' took in $60 million in its second weekend, a hefty 60 percent drop from its record debut a week earlier but good enough to easily outdistance the competition and remain the No. 1 movie, according to studio estimates Sunday. ''After a record-breaking opening weekend, to me this is an appropriate second-weekend drop,'' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Media By Numbers. ''Any studio would be happy to have a movie opening with $60 million, let alone a second weekend with $60 million.'' With $242.1 million domestically in just 10 days, ''Spider-Man 3'' continued to beat the box-office pace of its predecessors. After 10 days, 2002's ''Spider-Man'' had grossed $223 million, while 2004's ''Spider-Man 2'' had taken in $225 million. ''Spider-Man 3'' quickly became the year's top-grossing film, hurtling past ''300,'' the Warner Bros. battle epic that has taken in $208 million. Second-weekend drops for successful studio films typically are well below 50 percent. But ''Spider-Man 3'' shattered records with $151.1 million in its first weekend, making a big decline virtually inevitable since so many people already had seen the film. ''When you're in that stratosphere, we had to assume we would be in the range of a 60 percent drop,'' said Rory Bruer, head of distribution for Sony. The weekend's other new movies had fair to poor openings. Debuting in second place with $10 million was Fox Atomic's horror sequel ''28 Weeks Later,'' a follow up to ''28 Days Later'' that continues the story of a virus in Britain that turns people into raging, cannibalistic zombies. Universal's ''Georgia Rule,'' starring Lindsay Lohan, Jane Fonda and Felicity Huffman, opened at No. 3 with $5.9 million. Lohan plays a rebellious teen who's put under the charge of her no-nonsense grandma (Fonda). Lionsgate's ''Delta Farce'' premiered at No. 5 with $3.5 million. Larry the Cable Guy stars in the comedy about three weekend warriors mistakenly dumped in Mexico, where they take on a gang of bandits. The Weinstein Co. and MGM's workplace comedy ''The Ex'' tanked with $1.4 million, coming in at No. 12. The movie stars Zach Braff as a husband dueling with a co-worker who also is his wife's ex-boyfriend. ''Spider-Man 3'' made up for an otherwise soft crop of movies. The top-12 films took in $96.9 million, up 14 percent from the same weekend last year, when ''Mission: Impossible 3'' was No. 1 with $25 million and ''Poseidon'' debuted in second place with $22.2 million. Overseas, ''Spider-Man 3'' pulled in an additional $85.5 million for the weekend, raising its international total to $380 million and worldwide total to $622 million. The previous ''Spider-Man'' movies each took in about $800 million worldwide, a number ''Spider-Man 3'' should easily beat. ''Spider-Man 3'' has a shot at topping $1 billion worldwide, Bruer said. Only three other movies, ''Titanic,'' ''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest,'' have hit that mark. After two weekends of light competition, ''Spider-Man 3'' faces the summer's next heavy-hitter Friday with the debut of DreamWorks Animation's ''Shrek the Third,'' the latest adventure of the cartoon ogre. A week later, Disney's ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' sails into theaters, the Johnny Depp action comedy joining ''Spider-Man 3'' and ''Shrek the Third'' to set up what could be Hollywood's biggest Memorial Day weekend ever. Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Media By Numbers LLC. Final figures will be released Monday. 1. ''Spider-Man 3,'' $60 million. 2. ''28 Weeks Later,'' $10 million. 3. ''Georgia Rule,'' $5.9 million. 4. ''Disturbia,'' $4.8 million. 5. ''Delta Farce,'' $3.5 million. 6. ''Fracture,'' $2.9 million. 7. ''The Invisible,'' $2.2 million. 8. ''Hot Fuzz,'' $1.7 million. 9. ''Next,'' $1.604 million. 10. ''Meet the Robinsons,'' $1.6 million. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7485522.html	Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Story Published: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT Story Updated: May 13, 2007 at 12:13 PM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Even when he takes a huge fall, Spider-Man comes out on top. Sony's ''Spider-Man 3'' took in $60 million in its second weekend, a hefty 60 percent drop from its record debut a week earlier but good enough to easily outdistance the competition and remain the No. 1 movie, according to studio estimates Sunday. ''After a record-breaking opening weekend, to me this is an appropriate second-weekend drop,'' said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Media By Numbers. ''Any studio would be happy to have a movie opening with $60 million, let alone a second weekend with $60 million.'' With $242.1 million domestically in just 10 days, ''Spider-Man 3'' continued to beat the box-office pace of its predecessors. After 10 days, 2002's ''Spider-Man'' had grossed $223 million, while 2004's ''Spider-Man 2'' had taken in $225 million. ''Spider-Man 3'' quickly became the year's top-grossing film, hurtling past ''300,'' the Warner Bros. battle epic that has taken in $208 million. Second-weekend drops for successful studio films typically are well below 50 percent. But ''Spider-Man 3'' shattered records with $151.1 million in its first weekend, making a big decline virtually inevitable since so many people already had seen the film. ''When you're in that stratosphere, we had to assume we would be in the range of a 60 percent drop,'' said Rory Bruer, head of distribution for Sony. The weekend's other new movies had fair to poor openings. Debuting in second place with $10 million was Fox Atomic's horror sequel ''28 Weeks Later,'' a follow up to ''28 Days Later'' that continues the story of a virus in Britain that turns people into raging, cannibalistic zombies. Universal's ''Georgia Rule,'' starring Lindsay Lohan, Jane Fonda and Felicity Huffman, opened at No. 3 with $5.9 million. Lohan plays a rebellious teen who's put under the charge of her no-nonsense grandma (Fonda). Lionsgate's ''Delta Farce'' premiered at No. 5 with $3.5 million. Larry the Cable Guy stars in the comedy about three weekend warriors mistakenly dumped in Mexico, where they take on a gang of bandits. The Weinstein Co. and MGM's workplace comedy ''The Ex'' tanked with $1.4 million, coming in at No. 12. The movie stars Zach Braff as a husband dueling with a co-worker who also is his wife's ex-boyfriend. ''Spider-Man 3'' made up for an otherwise soft crop of movies. The top-12 films took in $96.9 million, up 14 percent from the same weekend last year, when ''Mission: Impossible 3'' was No. 1 with $25 million and ''Poseidon'' debuted in second place with $22.2 million. Overseas, ''Spider-Man 3'' pulled in an additional $85.5 million for the weekend, raising its international total to $380 million and worldwide total to $622 million. The previous ''Spider-Man'' movies each took in about $800 million worldwide, a number ''Spider-Man 3'' should easily beat. ''Spider-Man 3'' has a shot at topping $1 billion worldwide, Bruer said. Only three other movies, ''Titanic,'' ''The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King'' and ''Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest,'' have hit that mark. After two weekends of light competition, ''Spider-Man 3'' faces the summer's next heavy-hitter Friday with the debut of DreamWorks Animation's ''Shrek the Third,'' the latest adventure of the cartoon ogre. A week later, Disney's ''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' sails into theaters, the Johnny Depp action comedy joining ''Spider-Man 3'' and ''Shrek the Third'' to set up what could be Hollywood's biggest Memorial Day weekend ever. Estimated ticket sales for Friday through Sunday at U.S. and Canadian theaters, according to Media By Numbers LLC. Final figures will be released Monday. 1. ''Spider-Man 3,'' $60 million. 2. ''28 Weeks Later,'' $10 million. 3. ''Georgia Rule,'' $5.9 million. 4. ''Disturbia,'' $4.8 million. 5. ''Delta Farce,'' $3.5 million. 6. ''Fracture,'' $2.9 million. 7. ''The Invisible,'' $2.2 million. 8. ''Hot Fuzz,'' $1.7 million. 9. ''Next,'' $1.604 million. 10. ''Meet the Robinsons,'' $1.6 million. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512502.html	ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - ABC's "Grey's Anatomy" spinoff will air next fall on an all-new Wednesday night schedule, one of 11 new series the network plans for next season. "Private Practice" features Dr. Addison Shepard, who leaves Seattle for work in Los Angeles. A special "Grey's Anatomy" that effectively served as the show's pilot was seen by 21 million people earlier this month. Veteran TV actors Merrin Dungey, Tim Daly, Taye Diggs and Amy Brenneman will join star Kate Walsh in "Private Practice," which will air at 9 p.m. Two other new series will air Wednesdays on ABC in the fall. "Pushing Daisies," described as a forensic fairy tale, features a boy who can touch dead people and bring them back to life. "Dirty Sexy Money" is a prime-time soap opera about a wealthy New York family. ABC also gave the go-ahead to "Cavemen," a comedy adapted from the Geico insurance commercials. The network canceled the comedies "George Lopez," "Help Me Help You" and "Knights of Prosperity." "What About Brian" did not make the cut, and ABC is still debating the future of "According to Jim," while leaving it off the fall schedule. The first prime-time series from Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions, "Oprah's Big Give," will debut in midseason. It's a reality series where contestants compete in philanthropy. In contrast to last year, when "Grey's Anatomy" made its successful switch to Thursday nights, ABC plans no major shifts of its existing series. "Men in Trees" moves to an earlier time slot on Friday nights. "Lost" will return in midseason, but ABC made no commitment Tuesday on where it will land on the schedule. Other new series that ABC plans for next season: -"Big Shots," a drama about four hard-charging friends who are dysfunctional CEOs. Dylan McDermott, Christopher Titus, Joshua Malina and Michael Vartan play the lead characters. -"Cashmere Mafia," ABC's attempt to inherit the "Sex and the City" mantle. Four women, friends since business school, juggle their personal and professional lives in New York. NBC has a similar new show - with three women. -"Eli Stone," a drama about a top lawyer in San Francisco who begins having visions because of a brain aneurysm. -"Women's Murder Club," based on James Patterson novels, is a drama about four women in San Francisco - a detective, district attorney, medical examiner and reporter - who work together to solve crimes. -"Carpoolers," a comedy about four men from different backgrounds who get together each day for some male bonding on the drive to work. -"Miss/Guided," a comedy about a former high school geek who returns to her alma mater as a guidance counselor, only to see an ex-cheerleader and former nemesis come back as an English teacher. -"Sam I Am," a comedy with Christina Applegate about a woman who awakes from a coma with no memory, only to find out she was a creep before. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512502.html	ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - ABC's "Grey's Anatomy" spinoff will air next fall on an all-new Wednesday night schedule, one of 11 new series the network plans for next season. "Private Practice" features Dr. Addison Shepard, who leaves Seattle for work in Los Angeles. A special "Grey's Anatomy" that effectively served as the show's pilot was seen by 21 million people earlier this month. Veteran TV actors Merrin Dungey, Tim Daly, Taye Diggs and Amy Brenneman will join star Kate Walsh in "Private Practice," which will air at 9 p.m. Two other new series will air Wednesdays on ABC in the fall. "Pushing Daisies," described as a forensic fairy tale, features a boy who can touch dead people and bring them back to life. "Dirty Sexy Money" is a prime-time soap opera about a wealthy New York family. ABC also gave the go-ahead to "Cavemen," a comedy adapted from the Geico insurance commercials. The network canceled the comedies "George Lopez," "Help Me Help You" and "Knights of Prosperity." "What About Brian" did not make the cut, and ABC is still debating the future of "According to Jim," while leaving it off the fall schedule. The first prime-time series from Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions, "Oprah's Big Give," will debut in midseason. It's a reality series where contestants compete in philanthropy. In contrast to last year, when "Grey's Anatomy" made its successful switch to Thursday nights, ABC plans no major shifts of its existing series. "Men in Trees" moves to an earlier time slot on Friday nights. "Lost" will return in midseason, but ABC made no commitment Tuesday on where it will land on the schedule. Other new series that ABC plans for next season: -"Big Shots," a drama about four hard-charging friends who are dysfunctional CEOs. Dylan McDermott, Christopher Titus, Joshua Malina and Michael Vartan play the lead characters. -"Cashmere Mafia," ABC's attempt to inherit the "Sex and the City" mantle. Four women, friends since business school, juggle their personal and professional lives in New York. NBC has a similar new show - with three women. -"Eli Stone," a drama about a top lawyer in San Francisco who begins having visions because of a brain aneurysm. -"Women's Murder Club," based on James Patterson novels, is a drama about four women in San Francisco - a detective, district attorney, medical examiner and reporter - who work together to solve crimes. -"Carpoolers," a comedy about four men from different backgrounds who get together each day for some male bonding on the drive to work. -"Miss/Guided," a comedy about a former high school geek who returns to her alma mater as a guidance counselor, only to see an ex-cheerleader and former nemesis come back as an English teacher. -"Sam I Am," a comedy with Christina Applegate about a woman who awakes from a coma with no memory, only to find out she was a creep before. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Fan ordered to stay away from Bullock Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Fan ordered to stay away from Bullock Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights ABC announces end date for 'Lost' Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512542.html	'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) - At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. Last summer, the Glendale, Ariz., native tried out for the Fox hit in Los Angeles and didn't even make it past the first round. "I know she worked really hard to get in shape just to learn how to perform a little bit more," said Kris Siegrest, Sparks' personal trainer and a longtime family friend. "Even when she went the first time, I was shocked she didn't make it." But since impressing the judges a few months later with "Because You Loved Me," the 17-year-old is now the youngest of three remaining "Idol" hopefuls. She is competing against Blake Lewis, 25, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, to win the big prize. Siegrest said it is surreal that Sparks has to go out "incognito" when doing something as simple as cheering her younger brother, P.J., at a basketball game. "She wore baggy clothes and a cap. Even there she got recognized," Siegrest said. "I thought that was really cool in the mix of all the business, she wanted to watch her brother play a junior high game." The daughter of retired NFL player Phillippi Sparks, Sparks spent most of her childhood in Glendale, a Phoenix suburb. Singing was a passion from the beginning. Churchgoers and family were usually her only audience. Bobb Cooper, artistic director at Valley Youth Theatre in Phoenix, remembers a 13-year-old Sparks only being cast in ensemble roles, like a poppy in "The Wiz." "She really has matured at gaining control of her voice. She gets better every week," Cooper said. Siegrest said having a father who was a pro athlete should help Sparks deal with her growing fame. At an early age, she experienced what it was like being in the public eye. "There's some responsibility that comes along with that, and I think she's very aware of it," Siegrest said. Pandy Raye, Sparks' former guitar teacher, said the teen's family would make sure she stayed role-model material. "Every decision they make, they really take a lot of time to see 'OK, how is this going to affect her?' She's just so grounded," Raye said. During the last year, Sparks was home schooled so she could focus on music. In September 2006, she snagged the title "Arizona Idol," a competition put on by the local Fox affiliate, and a second chance to audition for the show. Glendale has been throwing support behind Sparks with elaborate, outdoor "American Idol" viewing parties at a local shopping complex. Since March 20, the city of about 245,000 has seen hundreds of people from all over the state turn out to watch Sparks on two 14-foot TVs. The city also has been distributing free "Glendale supports Jordin" posters at its visitor center. On Friday, about 5,000 people weathered triple-digit heat to glimpse Sparks during a hometown appearance. Leeann Corless, a 34-year-old single mom, and her 10-year-old son have attended every viewing party since April. She believes Lewis will be the next one shown the door. "I always thought it was going to be between Jordin and Melinda," said Corless. "Of course she's going to be the winner. She's the most outgoing and she's the most charitable person." The cheerful disposition is no act, according to Siegrest. "What you see when she speaks and is giddy and kind of funny and smiling all the time, that's Jordin," Siegrest said. "What you're seeing is really her. She's fun and not afraid to look funny." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512542.html	'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) - At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. Last summer, the Glendale, Ariz., native tried out for the Fox hit in Los Angeles and didn't even make it past the first round. "I know she worked really hard to get in shape just to learn how to perform a little bit more," said Kris Siegrest, Sparks' personal trainer and a longtime family friend. "Even when she went the first time, I was shocked she didn't make it." But since impressing the judges a few months later with "Because You Loved Me," the 17-year-old is now the youngest of three remaining "Idol" hopefuls. She is competing against Blake Lewis, 25, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, to win the big prize. Siegrest said it is surreal that Sparks has to go out "incognito" when doing something as simple as cheering her younger brother, P.J., at a basketball game. "She wore baggy clothes and a cap. Even there she got recognized," Siegrest said. "I thought that was really cool in the mix of all the business, she wanted to watch her brother play a junior high game." The daughter of retired NFL player Phillippi Sparks, Sparks spent most of her childhood in Glendale, a Phoenix suburb. Singing was a passion from the beginning. Churchgoers and family were usually her only audience. Bobb Cooper, artistic director at Valley Youth Theatre in Phoenix, remembers a 13-year-old Sparks only being cast in ensemble roles, like a poppy in "The Wiz." "She really has matured at gaining control of her voice. She gets better every week," Cooper said. Siegrest said having a father who was a pro athlete should help Sparks deal with her growing fame. At an early age, she experienced what it was like being in the public eye. "There's some responsibility that comes along with that, and I think she's very aware of it," Siegrest said. Pandy Raye, Sparks' former guitar teacher, said the teen's family would make sure she stayed role-model material. "Every decision they make, they really take a lot of time to see 'OK, how is this going to affect her?' She's just so grounded," Raye said. During the last year, Sparks was home schooled so she could focus on music. In September 2006, she snagged the title "Arizona Idol," a competition put on by the local Fox affiliate, and a second chance to audition for the show. Glendale has been throwing support behind Sparks with elaborate, outdoor "American Idol" viewing parties at a local shopping complex. Since March 20, the city of about 245,000 has seen hundreds of people from all over the state turn out to watch Sparks on two 14-foot TVs. The city also has been distributing free "Glendale supports Jordin" posters at its visitor center. On Friday, about 5,000 people weathered triple-digit heat to glimpse Sparks during a hometown appearance. Leeann Corless, a 34-year-old single mom, and her 10-year-old son have attended every viewing party since April. She believes Lewis will be the next one shown the door. "I always thought it was going to be between Jordin and Melinda," said Corless. "Of course she's going to be the winner. She's the most outgoing and she's the most charitable person." The cheerful disposition is no act, according to Siegrest. "What you see when she speaks and is giddy and kind of funny and smiling all the time, that's Jordin," Siegrest said. "What you're seeing is really her. She's fun and not afraid to look funny." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494122.html	Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea "Live8" concert organizer Bob Geldof speaks during a news conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 2, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) - Bob Geldof, who organized the Live Aid and Live 8 benefit concerts, criticized the Live Earth music events Al Gore is putting together this summer, saying they lack a specific goal, according to a Dutch newspaper report Saturday. The Live Earth concerts will be held in cities around the world on July 7, with proceeds funding a yet-to-be-named foundation to combat climate change, under Gore's direction. The shows will take place in London; New York; Tokyo; Shanghai, China; Johannesburg, South Africa; Sydney, Australia; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Organizers have also promised an event in Antarctica. "I hope they're a success," De Volkskrant newspaper quoted Geldof as saying in an interview. "But why is (Gore) actually organizing them? To make us aware of the greenhouse effect? Everybody's known about that problem for years. We are all (expletive) conscious of global warming," he said. Geldof, former front-man of The Boomtown Rats, organized the mammoth Live Aid concerts in 1985 to benefit victims of famine in Ethiopia and the Live 8 concerts in 2005 for African debt relief. He has dedicated much of his career to advocating on behalf of humanitarian causes. "I would only organize (Live Earth) if I could go on stage and announce concrete environmental measures from the American presidential candidates, Congress or major corporations," he told the newspaper. "They haven't got those guarantees, so it's just an enormous pop concert or the umpteenth time that, say, Madonna or Coldplay get up on stage." Geldof also criticized the former vice president's choice of the name Live Earth. "It sounds like Live 8," he told the paper. "We're getting lots of responses from people who think we are organizing it." Gore could not immediately be reached Saturday for comment on the newspaper report. He was in Rio de Janeiro, where he implored people to attend that city's Live Earth show. "An estimated 2 billion people will be watching around the world, but the single largest event anywhere in the world will be here in Rio. I want to invite every person who cares about the environment in Brazil to come to the event here in Rio," Gore said. Gore said the concerts would mark the beginning of multiyear campaign to fight global warming. He said the concert was a fitting way to kick off such a campaign because "the task of saving the global environment is a task we should all approach with a sense of joy." Geldof also could not be reached to confirm the remarks, made at a conference in Budapest, Hungary. The Volkskrant is one of the largest national papers in the Netherlands. The headliners of the London Live Earth show at Wembley stadium are expected to be Madonna, the Beastie Boys, the Black Eyed Peas, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Keane and Foo Fighters. At the U.S. concert, to be held at Giants Stadium outside New York, Bon Jovi, the Dave Matthews Band, Kanye West, Rihanna, John Mayer, the Smashing Pumpkins and Fall Out Boy are slated to perform. The concerts will be broadcast in the U.S. by General Electric Co.'s NBC network and on more than 120 networks around the world, and streamed live online. Gore wrote the best-seller "An Inconvenient Truth," and later starred in a documentary film of the same name that popularized the science showing a link between human carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494122.html	Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea "Live8" concert organizer Bob Geldof speaks during a news conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 2, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) - Bob Geldof, who organized the Live Aid and Live 8 benefit concerts, criticized the Live Earth music events Al Gore is putting together this summer, saying they lack a specific goal, according to a Dutch newspaper report Saturday. The Live Earth concerts will be held in cities around the world on July 7, with proceeds funding a yet-to-be-named foundation to combat climate change, under Gore's direction. The shows will take place in London; New York; Tokyo; Shanghai, China; Johannesburg, South Africa; Sydney, Australia; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Organizers have also promised an event in Antarctica. "I hope they're a success," De Volkskrant newspaper quoted Geldof as saying in an interview. "But why is (Gore) actually organizing them? To make us aware of the greenhouse effect? Everybody's known about that problem for years. We are all (expletive) conscious of global warming," he said. Geldof, former front-man of The Boomtown Rats, organized the mammoth Live Aid concerts in 1985 to benefit victims of famine in Ethiopia and the Live 8 concerts in 2005 for African debt relief. He has dedicated much of his career to advocating on behalf of humanitarian causes. "I would only organize (Live Earth) if I could go on stage and announce concrete environmental measures from the American presidential candidates, Congress or major corporations," he told the newspaper. "They haven't got those guarantees, so it's just an enormous pop concert or the umpteenth time that, say, Madonna or Coldplay get up on stage." Geldof also criticized the former vice president's choice of the name Live Earth. "It sounds like Live 8," he told the paper. "We're getting lots of responses from people who think we are organizing it." Gore could not immediately be reached Saturday for comment on the newspaper report. He was in Rio de Janeiro, where he implored people to attend that city's Live Earth show. "An estimated 2 billion people will be watching around the world, but the single largest event anywhere in the world will be here in Rio. I want to invite every person who cares about the environment in Brazil to come to the event here in Rio," Gore said. Gore said the concerts would mark the beginning of multiyear campaign to fight global warming. He said the concert was a fitting way to kick off such a campaign because "the task of saving the global environment is a task we should all approach with a sense of joy." Geldof also could not be reached to confirm the remarks, made at a conference in Budapest, Hungary. The Volkskrant is one of the largest national papers in the Netherlands. The headliners of the London Live Earth show at Wembley stadium are expected to be Madonna, the Beastie Boys, the Black Eyed Peas, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Keane and Foo Fighters. At the U.S. concert, to be held at Giants Stadium outside New York, Bon Jovi, the Dave Matthews Band, Kanye West, Rihanna, John Mayer, the Smashing Pumpkins and Fall Out Boy are slated to perform. The concerts will be broadcast in the U.S. by General Electric Co.'s NBC network and on more than 120 networks around the world, and streamed live online. Gore wrote the best-seller "An Inconvenient Truth," and later starred in a documentary film of the same name that popularized the science showing a link between human carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494212.html	India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Richard Gere, left, hugs and kisses Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in New Delhi, India, in this March 15, 2007, file photo. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT NEW DELHI (AP) - Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty appealed to the Supreme Court Monday to quash an arrest warrant issued against her and Hollywood star Richard Gere for violating the country's obscenity laws, a media report said. The court was scheduled to hear the appeal Tuesday, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Court officials could not immediately be reached and a spokesman for Shetty declined to comment. A judge in the city of Jaipur issued the warrant last month for both Gere and Shetty after a kiss at a public AIDS awareness event in New Delhi. The public display of affection drew an outcry among Hindu hard-liners, with rallies against the actors held in several cities. But the judge's arrest order also drew harsh criticism in India, with some lawyers saying it had no legal merit and made the country look ridiculous. Gere, 57, apologized for any offense he may have caused in India, where public displays of affection are largely taboo. But he also said the whole controversy was manufactured by a small hardline political party. Gere, who left shortly after the kiss, is a frequent visitor to India, promoting health issues and the cause of Tibetan exiles. The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, has his headquarters in the northern Indian town of Dharmsala. Shetty, a well-known actress in India, became an international star after her appearance on the British reality show "Celebrity Big Brother." A fellow contestant, Jade Goody, sparked international headlines by allegedly making racist comments to Shetty, 31. The comments sparked public outrage in Britain and India and Shetty went on to win the competition. The judge who issued the warrant has since been transferred from his post. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494212.html	India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Richard Gere, left, hugs and kisses Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in New Delhi, India, in this March 15, 2007, file photo. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT NEW DELHI (AP) - Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty appealed to the Supreme Court Monday to quash an arrest warrant issued against her and Hollywood star Richard Gere for violating the country's obscenity laws, a media report said. The court was scheduled to hear the appeal Tuesday, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Court officials could not immediately be reached and a spokesman for Shetty declined to comment. A judge in the city of Jaipur issued the warrant last month for both Gere and Shetty after a kiss at a public AIDS awareness event in New Delhi. The public display of affection drew an outcry among Hindu hard-liners, with rallies against the actors held in several cities. But the judge's arrest order also drew harsh criticism in India, with some lawyers saying it had no legal merit and made the country look ridiculous. Gere, 57, apologized for any offense he may have caused in India, where public displays of affection are largely taboo. But he also said the whole controversy was manufactured by a small hardline political party. Gere, who left shortly after the kiss, is a frequent visitor to India, promoting health issues and the cause of Tibetan exiles. The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, has his headquarters in the northern Indian town of Dharmsala. Shetty, a well-known actress in India, became an international star after her appearance on the British reality show "Celebrity Big Brother." A fellow contestant, Jade Goody, sparked international headlines by allegedly making racist comments to Shetty, 31. The comments sparked public outrage in Britain and India and Shetty went on to win the competition. The judge who issued the warrant has since been transferred from his post. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512587.html	Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. Dr. Charles Sophy has been seeing Hilton, 26, for the past eight months and has talked with her several times since her May 4 hearing for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case, according to court papers. Sophy said Hilton needs time to recover from the shock of receiving jail time before testifying in a civil case brought against her by actress and diamond heiress Zeta Graff. Messages left with Hilton's spokesman and lawyer weren't immediately returned early Tuesday. In court papers filed Monday, Sophy said Hilton is "distraught and traumatized as a consequence of the findings at the May 4 hearing ... and her fear of incarceration." "At this point in time," he continued, "Ms. Hilton cannot effectively respond to examination as a witness or provide any significant input into her defense." Graff filed a $10 million lawsuit against Hilton in 2005, claiming the reality TV star spread "vicious lies" about her. Hilton has denied that she was behind a report alleging Graff once tried to grab a necklace worth $4 million from her throat. Superior Court Judge Linda K. Lefkowitz postponed the trial to August. It had been scheduled to begin this month. Hilton and her pal Nicole Richie star on "The Simple Life," which throws them into everyday situations. After famously feuding and filming their parts separately last season, the celebutantes have reunited as camp counselors for the show's upcoming installment on the Comcast Corp.-operated E! network. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512587.html	Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. Dr. Charles Sophy has been seeing Hilton, 26, for the past eight months and has talked with her several times since her May 4 hearing for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case, according to court papers. Sophy said Hilton needs time to recover from the shock of receiving jail time before testifying in a civil case brought against her by actress and diamond heiress Zeta Graff. Messages left with Hilton's spokesman and lawyer weren't immediately returned early Tuesday. In court papers filed Monday, Sophy said Hilton is "distraught and traumatized as a consequence of the findings at the May 4 hearing ... and her fear of incarceration." "At this point in time," he continued, "Ms. Hilton cannot effectively respond to examination as a witness or provide any significant input into her defense." Graff filed a $10 million lawsuit against Hilton in 2005, claiming the reality TV star spread "vicious lies" about her. Hilton has denied that she was behind a report alleging Graff once tried to grab a necklace worth $4 million from her throat. Superior Court Judge Linda K. Lefkowitz postponed the trial to August. It had been scheduled to begin this month. Hilton and her pal Nicole Richie star on "The Simple Life," which throws them into everyday situations. After famously feuding and filming their parts separately last season, the celebutantes have reunited as camp counselors for the show's upcoming installment on the Comcast Corp.-operated E! network. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497152.html	Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - "Hands Held High," one of the most powerful songs on Linkin Park's new album, includes lyrics about bombs blowing up mosques, a bumbling leader, high gas prices and general world confusion - an obvious missive against President Bush and the war in Iraq. Or maybe not. Tell that interpretation to Mike Shinoda, the rapper/musician who writes most of the lyrics for the blockbuster band, and you'll get an earful on making assumptions about the group's most adventurous album to date, "Minutes to Midnight." "We're not a political band. And I see some of the stuff that you're referring to ... as more social," says Shinoda, showing a glint of frustration as he and drummer Rob Bourdon sit in a studio, taking a break from rehearsals for upcoming shows. "I tend to be drawn towards people, the interaction with people and how emotional events make you feel, and because we're all older, I think that we are more aware of those things," says Shinoda, 30. "This record ... it's aware of what's going on inside and aware to a large degree on what's going on outside ourselves." The lyrics on the album, out Tuesday, are not the only signs of the band's development since the release of 2003's multiplatinum "Meteora." Once the leaders of rap-rock fusion, you'll hear less of Shinoda's signature rhymes on this record (he does sing on one track). And while lead singer Chester Bennington's screams are still as piercing as ever, they're less likely to be supported by the kind of music that defined the band as nu-metal. Some songs sound very pop, with arrangements that could even be described as mellow and tender. "We've taken a lot of risks on this record because of the stylistic changes that we've made," concedes the 31-year-old Bennington. "The one thing that people will notice the most is that there's not a nu-metal feel, but a lot of what we do is very Linkin Park ... We felt like we had done something very unique." "There's more maturity (but) I think it delivers the same emotional impact that they always have," says Mike Rich, senior vice president and general manager of AOL Entertainment, for which the band taped a raucous concert on Friday night. It was to premiere on the Web portal Monday. Doing something unique was an important goal for the band on "Minutes to Midnight." The six-member group had sold 10 million copies of their 2000 debut, "Hybrid Theory," and then another four million with "Meteora." Both albums explored feelings of frustration and fury with a mix of rock, hip-hop and metal. (The band also sold millions with its remix album, "Reanimation," and its mash-up record with Jay-Z, "Collision Course" - not including side projects such as Shinoda's successful group Fort Minor.) To help with their evolution, the group enlisted Grammy-winning producer Rick Rubin. They were longtime fans of Rubin, whose credits in the past year included Tom Petty, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the Dixie Chicks and Slayer. "He suggested that we forget about what we think Linkin Park is supposed to sound like and just write whatever type of music we were inspired by at the moment," says Bourdon, 28. "It was really freeing." And many people will say "Minutes to Midnight" doesn't sound like Linkin Park. "The songs we felt strongly about have more melodies," says Bennington. "and those are the songs that turned up on the record." Then there's the content. Although Shinoda stresses that it's not a political album, the band references the nation's turmoil, from broken levees on "The Little Things Give You Away" to bitterness over leaders on "No More Sorrow." "We've always just stuck true to the music that we felt like making," says Bourdon. "If we were to try and go make the trilogy album for us, it wouldn't have felt right to us, it would have been like we were trying to be something that we're not." The band knows that some fans will want to hear a retread of their past sound. "We've gotten a lot of really positive response from fans, critics," says Bennington. "We've also gotten some feedback that's just like - I think it's going to take a while for some people to wrap their heads around what we've done." But the band hopes that once fans hear the music, they'll realize Linkin Park has changed for the better. "We hope that a lot of our fans are on the same page, and if they're not on the same page, that's fine too, maybe they will be later, maybe not, but we'll still be playing this album, we'll still be playing the other albums," says Shinoda. "And whoever wants to come the show is invited." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497152.html	Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - "Hands Held High," one of the most powerful songs on Linkin Park's new album, includes lyrics about bombs blowing up mosques, a bumbling leader, high gas prices and general world confusion - an obvious missive against President Bush and the war in Iraq. Or maybe not. Tell that interpretation to Mike Shinoda, the rapper/musician who writes most of the lyrics for the blockbuster band, and you'll get an earful on making assumptions about the group's most adventurous album to date, "Minutes to Midnight." "We're not a political band. And I see some of the stuff that you're referring to ... as more social," says Shinoda, showing a glint of frustration as he and drummer Rob Bourdon sit in a studio, taking a break from rehearsals for upcoming shows. "I tend to be drawn towards people, the interaction with people and how emotional events make you feel, and because we're all older, I think that we are more aware of those things," says Shinoda, 30. "This record ... it's aware of what's going on inside and aware to a large degree on what's going on outside ourselves." The lyrics on the album, out Tuesday, are not the only signs of the band's development since the release of 2003's multiplatinum "Meteora." Once the leaders of rap-rock fusion, you'll hear less of Shinoda's signature rhymes on this record (he does sing on one track). And while lead singer Chester Bennington's screams are still as piercing as ever, they're less likely to be supported by the kind of music that defined the band as nu-metal. Some songs sound very pop, with arrangements that could even be described as mellow and tender. "We've taken a lot of risks on this record because of the stylistic changes that we've made," concedes the 31-year-old Bennington. "The one thing that people will notice the most is that there's not a nu-metal feel, but a lot of what we do is very Linkin Park ... We felt like we had done something very unique." "There's more maturity (but) I think it delivers the same emotional impact that they always have," says Mike Rich, senior vice president and general manager of AOL Entertainment, for which the band taped a raucous concert on Friday night. It was to premiere on the Web portal Monday. Doing something unique was an important goal for the band on "Minutes to Midnight." The six-member group had sold 10 million copies of their 2000 debut, "Hybrid Theory," and then another four million with "Meteora." Both albums explored feelings of frustration and fury with a mix of rock, hip-hop and metal. (The band also sold millions with its remix album, "Reanimation," and its mash-up record with Jay-Z, "Collision Course" - not including side projects such as Shinoda's successful group Fort Minor.) To help with their evolution, the group enlisted Grammy-winning producer Rick Rubin. They were longtime fans of Rubin, whose credits in the past year included Tom Petty, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the Dixie Chicks and Slayer. "He suggested that we forget about what we think Linkin Park is supposed to sound like and just write whatever type of music we were inspired by at the moment," says Bourdon, 28. "It was really freeing." And many people will say "Minutes to Midnight" doesn't sound like Linkin Park. "The songs we felt strongly about have more melodies," says Bennington. "and those are the songs that turned up on the record." Then there's the content. Although Shinoda stresses that it's not a political album, the band references the nation's turmoil, from broken levees on "The Little Things Give You Away" to bitterness over leaders on "No More Sorrow." "We've always just stuck true to the music that we felt like making," says Bourdon. "If we were to try and go make the trilogy album for us, it wouldn't have felt right to us, it would have been like we were trying to be something that we're not." The band knows that some fans will want to hear a retread of their past sound. "We've gotten a lot of really positive response from fans, critics," says Bennington. "We've also gotten some feedback that's just like - I think it's going to take a while for some people to wrap their heads around what we've done." But the band hopes that once fans hear the music, they'll realize Linkin Park has changed for the better. "We hope that a lot of our fans are on the same page, and if they're not on the same page, that's fine too, maybe they will be later, maybe not, but we'll still be playing this album, we'll still be playing the other albums," says Shinoda. "And whoever wants to come the show is invited." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512647.html	'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT By CHRISTY LEMIRE, AP Movie Critic "Shrek the Third" begins with a death, and from there the movie itself steadily dies. The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Thankfully, as the films go along, they rely less on gratuitous pop-culture references. And visually this "Shrek" is more dazzling than ever, especially in the realistic background details. The water looks watery and the sand looks sandy and the trees look so lush and leafy you could practically jump out of your seat and climb into one of them. By now it's probably easy for all of us to take for granted how far CGI technology has come, and it's worth stopping to appreciate for a moment. But part three also lacks the zip of its predecessors; it feels draggy and, at the same time, rushed. (At 86 minutes, it's also the shortest film in the series.) Except for a few moments here and there, such as Prince Charming's gleefully corny stage productions and a Gingerbread Man flashback montage, much of the original sense of ingenious fun is gone. It doesn't help that so many tired "Shrek" wannabes, like "Hoodwinked" and "Happily N'Ever After," have been trotted out in recent years, making the real thing feel just as hackneyed. Chris Miller, previously a story artist, co-directed with animator Raman Hui. About a half-dozen people are credited as having contributed to the script, including Andrew Adamson, who directed the first two "Shrek" flicks. So there is a sense of consistency - it just doesn't feel all that fresh anymore. This time, the lovably cranky ogre Shrek (voiced reliably as always by Mike Myers) struggles with the prospect of becoming king of Far, Far Away after the death of King Harold, the father of his bride, Fiona (Cameron Diaz). He'd rather stay home in the swamp, lazing around all day. (Why Fiona can't take over in a fairy-tale land where the all the other rules have been upended is never addressed. She is the more even-tempered and levelheaded of the two, after all. Perhaps if Hillary were president ....) Anyway, Shrek sets out with his chatty sidekick Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and the suave Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas, still an adorable scene-stealer) to find the only other possible heir to the throne: the nerdy, insecure Artie, Fiona's teenage cousin, who is voiced by Justin Timberlake and looks like Corey Feldman. Artie is always on the receiving end of Lancelot's athletic jousts and is otherwise the butt of everyone's jokes at his medieval high school - the irony being, of course, that Timberlake has long been the coolest kid in the class. So when Shrek and his pals show up and offer him the kingdom, he's only to happy to take it. At first. Meanwhile, with hubby away, Fiona is left to defend the castle from Prince Charming (Rupert Everett), the vain former suitor she once jilted who has now come back to stage a bloody coup with a posse of vanquished villains (Captain Hook, the Evil Queen, etc.). Fiona - who's pregnant with the baby Shrek isn't sure he's ready for - gets some unexpected help on her end from longtime damsels in distress Snow White (Amy Poehler), Cinderella (Amy Sedaris), Rapunzel (Maya Rudolph) and Sleeping Beauty (Cheri Oteri), as well as her mother, Queen Lillian (Julie Andrews). It's a clever idea to have these characters transcend their stereotypes, but with the exception of Poehler's demanding diva, they all feel tossed in and underused. Like "Spider-Man 3," "Shrek the Third" throws more at us - including plenty of barf and flatulence jokes for the kids - but too little of it actually sticks. "Shrek the Third," a Paramount Pictures release, is rated PG for some crude humor, suggestive content and swashbuckling action. Running time: 86 minutes. Two stars out of four. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512647.html	'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT By CHRISTY LEMIRE, AP Movie Critic "Shrek the Third" begins with a death, and from there the movie itself steadily dies. The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Thankfully, as the films go along, they rely less on gratuitous pop-culture references. And visually this "Shrek" is more dazzling than ever, especially in the realistic background details. The water looks watery and the sand looks sandy and the trees look so lush and leafy you could practically jump out of your seat and climb into one of them. By now it's probably easy for all of us to take for granted how far CGI technology has come, and it's worth stopping to appreciate for a moment. But part three also lacks the zip of its predecessors; it feels draggy and, at the same time, rushed. (At 86 minutes, it's also the shortest film in the series.) Except for a few moments here and there, such as Prince Charming's gleefully corny stage productions and a Gingerbread Man flashback montage, much of the original sense of ingenious fun is gone. It doesn't help that so many tired "Shrek" wannabes, like "Hoodwinked" and "Happily N'Ever After," have been trotted out in recent years, making the real thing feel just as hackneyed. Chris Miller, previously a story artist, co-directed with animator Raman Hui. About a half-dozen people are credited as having contributed to the script, including Andrew Adamson, who directed the first two "Shrek" flicks. So there is a sense of consistency - it just doesn't feel all that fresh anymore. This time, the lovably cranky ogre Shrek (voiced reliably as always by Mike Myers) struggles with the prospect of becoming king of Far, Far Away after the death of King Harold, the father of his bride, Fiona (Cameron Diaz). He'd rather stay home in the swamp, lazing around all day. (Why Fiona can't take over in a fairy-tale land where the all the other rules have been upended is never addressed. She is the more even-tempered and levelheaded of the two, after all. Perhaps if Hillary were president ....) Anyway, Shrek sets out with his chatty sidekick Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and the suave Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas, still an adorable scene-stealer) to find the only other possible heir to the throne: the nerdy, insecure Artie, Fiona's teenage cousin, who is voiced by Justin Timberlake and looks like Corey Feldman. Artie is always on the receiving end of Lancelot's athletic jousts and is otherwise the butt of everyone's jokes at his medieval high school - the irony being, of course, that Timberlake has long been the coolest kid in the class. So when Shrek and his pals show up and offer him the kingdom, he's only to happy to take it. At first. Meanwhile, with hubby away, Fiona is left to defend the castle from Prince Charming (Rupert Everett), the vain former suitor she once jilted who has now come back to stage a bloody coup with a posse of vanquished villains (Captain Hook, the Evil Queen, etc.). Fiona - who's pregnant with the baby Shrek isn't sure he's ready for - gets some unexpected help on her end from longtime damsels in distress Snow White (Amy Poehler), Cinderella (Amy Sedaris), Rapunzel (Maya Rudolph) and Sleeping Beauty (Cheri Oteri), as well as her mother, Queen Lillian (Julie Andrews). It's a clever idea to have these characters transcend their stereotypes, but with the exception of Poehler's demanding diva, they all feel tossed in and underused. Like "Spider-Man 3," "Shrek the Third" throws more at us - including plenty of barf and flatulence jokes for the kids - but too little of it actually sticks. "Shrek the Third," a Paramount Pictures release, is rated PG for some crude humor, suggestive content and swashbuckling action. Running time: 86 minutes. Two stars out of four. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497287.html	Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The body count for "The Sopranos" had a major bump Sunday as this HBO mob drama races toward its own termination. (Spoiler alert: If you plan to watch the episode later and don't want to learn the newest casualty, stop reading now.) With the series' conclusion just three episodes away (on June 10), this week's victim was Christopher Moltisanti, nephew of New Jersey mob boss Tony Soprano and, until lately, Tony's presumed successor. Death resulted from a car crash with Christopher at the wheel, but Tony, by then fed up with his destructive behavior, made sure the accident was decisive. It was early in the episode that Christopher (Michael Imperioli) and Tony (James Gandolfini) were returning from Manhattan, where they had a contentious meeting with New York boss Phil Leotardo. Barreling along a deserted New Jersey highway, the two of them groused about the deal going sour. Meanwhile, Christopher kept taking his eyes off the road to fine-tune his sound system (which notably was playing "Comfortably Numb" from the soundtrack for the recent film "The Departed"). Then his sport utility vehicle abruptly crossed the centerline. Christopher veered off the road to miss an oncoming car and crashed down a hill. Tony was banged up, but Christopher was in far more serious condition. Having suffered internal injuries, he was spitting up blood and gasping for breath. He pleaded for help. But before Tony could dial 911, the dazed Christopher added, as if about to face a DUI charge, "I'll never pass the drug test. Call me a taxi." Feeling betrayed yet again by Christopher (who had routinely vowed that he was drug-free), Tony made a fateful decision: It was time to solve this personnel problem. Tony pinched Christopher's nose, guaranteeing he would smother, and, looking comfortably numb, Christopher faded away. This short interlude led an hour that predominantly addressed the effect of Christopher's death on his family, the crew and Tony in particular. Played by Imperioli since "The Sopranos" premiered in 1999, Christopher was headstrong and homicidal, self-involved and erratic, all faults that were enhanced by his alcohol and drug addictions. Having collected many dangerous enemies (including Leotardo), Christopher was widely expected by "Sopranos" fans to meet a violent demise by the series' end. The circumstances and timing, however, were a surprise - as well as Tony's mixed reaction. Despite suffering pain, loss and guilt from Christopher's death, Tony also felt grateful relief from a burden he accurately described to his psychiatrist, Dr. Melfi, as "a weak, lying drug addict who fantasized about my downfall." At the end of the hour, Tony, who by then had bolted for a private getaway to Las Vegas, was watching the sun come up across the desert while, in a peyote haze, he bellowed out, "I get it!" Viewers were left to ponder just what it was he got. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497287.html	Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The body count for "The Sopranos" had a major bump Sunday as this HBO mob drama races toward its own termination. (Spoiler alert: If you plan to watch the episode later and don't want to learn the newest casualty, stop reading now.) With the series' conclusion just three episodes away (on June 10), this week's victim was Christopher Moltisanti, nephew of New Jersey mob boss Tony Soprano and, until lately, Tony's presumed successor. Death resulted from a car crash with Christopher at the wheel, but Tony, by then fed up with his destructive behavior, made sure the accident was decisive. It was early in the episode that Christopher (Michael Imperioli) and Tony (James Gandolfini) were returning from Manhattan, where they had a contentious meeting with New York boss Phil Leotardo. Barreling along a deserted New Jersey highway, the two of them groused about the deal going sour. Meanwhile, Christopher kept taking his eyes off the road to fine-tune his sound system (which notably was playing "Comfortably Numb" from the soundtrack for the recent film "The Departed"). Then his sport utility vehicle abruptly crossed the centerline. Christopher veered off the road to miss an oncoming car and crashed down a hill. Tony was banged up, but Christopher was in far more serious condition. Having suffered internal injuries, he was spitting up blood and gasping for breath. He pleaded for help. But before Tony could dial 911, the dazed Christopher added, as if about to face a DUI charge, "I'll never pass the drug test. Call me a taxi." Feeling betrayed yet again by Christopher (who had routinely vowed that he was drug-free), Tony made a fateful decision: It was time to solve this personnel problem. Tony pinched Christopher's nose, guaranteeing he would smother, and, looking comfortably numb, Christopher faded away. This short interlude led an hour that predominantly addressed the effect of Christopher's death on his family, the crew and Tony in particular. Played by Imperioli since "The Sopranos" premiered in 1999, Christopher was headstrong and homicidal, self-involved and erratic, all faults that were enhanced by his alcohol and drug addictions. Having collected many dangerous enemies (including Leotardo), Christopher was widely expected by "Sopranos" fans to meet a violent demise by the series' end. The circumstances and timing, however, were a surprise - as well as Tony's mixed reaction. Despite suffering pain, loss and guilt from Christopher's death, Tony also felt grateful relief from a burden he accurately described to his psychiatrist, Dr. Melfi, as "a weak, lying drug addict who fantasized about my downfall." At the end of the hour, Tony, who by then had bolted for a private getaway to Las Vegas, was watching the sun come up across the desert while, in a peyote haze, he bellowed out, "I get it!" Viewers were left to ponder just what it was he got. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Family has questions after man is found dead Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Cell phone bill, text message ban signed into law Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7520232.html	XM suspends shock jocks for on-air comments | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment XM suspends shock jocks for on-air comments Opie, right, whose real name is Gregg Hughes, and Anthony Cumia, left, of the radio show "Opie & Anthony" pose for a photograph in their New York studio, in this Oct. 8, 2004, file photo. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 3:28 PM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 3:28 PM PDT By MATTHEW BARAKAT Associated Press Writer McLEAN, Va. (AP) - Radio bad boys Opie and Anthony were suspended for 30 days Tuesday by XM Satellite Radio, one week after airing crude sex comments about Condoleezza Rice, Laura Bush and Queen Elizabeth and one day after making light of the incident in their broadcast. "Comments made by Opie and Anthony on yesterday's broadcast put into question whether they appreciate the seriousness of the matter," Washington-based XM said in a statement Tuesday. "The management of XM Radio decided to suspend Opie and Anthony to make clear that our on-air talent must take seriously the responsibility that creative freedom requires of them." Opie and Anthony, who last week apologized for the sex comments, struck a more defensive tone on Monday's broadcast. They lamented the state of radio and what they perceived as excessive reactions to comments made by themselves and other radio disc jockeys. "We're under the same scrutiny as (National Public Radio) - it doesn't make sense," they said on Monday's show. The pair also expressed sympathy for Don Imus, saying his career is now "gone, just because he was trying to entertain people." Last month, Imus was dropped by cable network MSNBC and fired by CBS Radio for using derogatory terms to describe the Rutgers women's basketball team. On May 9, Opie and Anthony, whose full names are Anthony Cumia and Greg "Opie" Hughes, aired a segment with a man they call Homeless Charlie. As the names of Rice, Bush and the queen came up, Charlie said in vulgar terms that he would like to have sex with each of them. Opie and Anthony laughed as they imagined Rice's "horror" while describing a violent sexual encounter in which Rice is punched in the face. Opie and Anthony were fired in 2002 by CBS Radio after broadcasting a call from two listeners who said they were having sex in New York's St. Patrick's Cathedral. XM hired the pair in 2004. Because the show airs on satellite radio, it is not subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission. Opie and Anthony also host a syndicated, tamer terrestrial radio program for CBS. Opie and Anthony will be on the air for that program as scheduled Wednesday morning, CBS Radio said Tuesday. A call to Opie and Anthony's agent, Robert Eatman, was not immediately returned Tuesday. An XM spokesman declined to say whether Opie and Anthony would be paid during their suspension, calling it a contractual matter. Associated Press Writer Larry McShane in New York contributed to this report. (Copyright 2007 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.) Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512467.html	Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Billy Corgan, singer of Smashing Pumpkins, performs on stage, October 15, 2000 in Zurich, Switzerland. Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:17 AM PDT ASHEVILLE, N.C. (AP) - The Smashing Pumpkins have announced they will give nine concerts in Asheville and eight in San Francisco this summer in the band's first residencies in more than a decade. The band will perform at the Orange Peel in Asheville on dates from June 23 to July 5, and at the historic Fillmore in San Francisco on dates from July 22 to August 1, it was announced Monday. According to information posted on the band's Web site, fans attending any of the shows are allowed to capture them with audio and video recorders. "They were looking for one West Coast venue and one East Coast venue," Liz Whalen of the Orange Peel told the Asheville Citizen-Times. She said the shows are the biggest event in the club's history and an entertainment milestone for the city in far western North Carolina. The Smashing Pumpkins last played a residency in 1994 in Chicago before the release of "Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness." Leaders in the early 1990s alternative rock revolution, the Smashing Pumpkins broke up in 2000 after winning two Grammys and selling millions of albums. Band leader Billy Corgan announced about two years ago that he wanted the band to reunite. The band will perform live for the first time since December 2000 next week in Paris. A new album, "ZEITGEIST," is scheduled to be released in July. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512502.html	ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:18 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - ABC's "Grey's Anatomy" spinoff will air next fall on an all-new Wednesday night schedule, one of 11 new series the network plans for next season. "Private Practice" features Dr. Addison Shepard, who leaves Seattle for work in Los Angeles. A special "Grey's Anatomy" that effectively served as the show's pilot was seen by 21 million people earlier this month. Veteran TV actors Merrin Dungey, Tim Daly, Taye Diggs and Amy Brenneman will join star Kate Walsh in "Private Practice," which will air at 9 p.m. Two other new series will air Wednesdays on ABC in the fall. "Pushing Daisies," described as a forensic fairy tale, features a boy who can touch dead people and bring them back to life. "Dirty Sexy Money" is a prime-time soap opera about a wealthy New York family. ABC also gave the go-ahead to "Cavemen," a comedy adapted from the Geico insurance commercials. The network canceled the comedies "George Lopez," "Help Me Help You" and "Knights of Prosperity." "What About Brian" did not make the cut, and ABC is still debating the future of "According to Jim," while leaving it off the fall schedule. The first prime-time series from Oprah Winfrey's Harpo Productions, "Oprah's Big Give," will debut in midseason. It's a reality series where contestants compete in philanthropy. In contrast to last year, when "Grey's Anatomy" made its successful switch to Thursday nights, ABC plans no major shifts of its existing series. "Men in Trees" moves to an earlier time slot on Friday nights. "Lost" will return in midseason, but ABC made no commitment Tuesday on where it will land on the schedule. Other new series that ABC plans for next season: -"Big Shots," a drama about four hard-charging friends who are dysfunctional CEOs. Dylan McDermott, Christopher Titus, Joshua Malina and Michael Vartan play the lead characters. -"Cashmere Mafia," ABC's attempt to inherit the "Sex and the City" mantle. Four women, friends since business school, juggle their personal and professional lives in New York. NBC has a similar new show - with three women. -"Eli Stone," a drama about a top lawyer in San Francisco who begins having visions because of a brain aneurysm. -"Women's Murder Club," based on James Patterson novels, is a drama about four women in San Francisco - a detective, district attorney, medical examiner and reporter - who work together to solve crimes. -"Carpoolers," a comedy about four men from different backgrounds who get together each day for some male bonding on the drive to work. -"Miss/Guided," a comedy about a former high school geek who returns to her alma mater as a guidance counselor, only to see an ex-cheerleader and former nemesis come back as an English teacher. -"Sam I Am," a comedy with Christina Applegate about a woman who awakes from a coma with no memory, only to find out she was a creep before. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment	KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment XM suspends shock jocks for on-air comments Radio bad boys Opie and Anthony were suspended for 30 days Tuesday by XM Satellite Radio, one week after airing crude sex comments about Condoleezza Rice, Laura Bush and Queen Elizabeth. 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye ABC adds 11 new series, led by 'Grey's Anatomy' spinoff Smashing Pumpkins to hold first residencies in more than a decade Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea Spidey takes a fall but still nets $60M Fan ordered to stay away from Bullock Fans turn out to greet local 'Idol' finalist Survival of a major 'Lost' character in question MPAA makes smoking a bigger factor in assigning film ratings Years after singles were killed off, digital tracks now dominate 'Ocean's Thirteen' stars using film to call attention to Darfur tragedy Burns to add contributions of Hispanic veterans to World War II documentary Paris Hilton: 'I'm ready to face the consequences' 'American Idol' down to the final three After record $9.9 million eBay bid, 'Dukes of Hazzard' car buyer fails to pay Michael Moore faces U.S. Treasury investigation over Cuba trip Fight breaks out during Boston Pops opening night concert Billy Ray Cyrus booted from 'Dancing With the Stars' Schwarzenegger hasn't reviewed Paris Hilton fan petition urging pardon Industry struggles to keep advertisers as figures show fewer people watching TV Rage virus festers in lame sequel '28 Weeks Later' A peek into TV's annual frenzy of pilot season Big bidders expected to boost prices of Grateful Dead memorabilia Brit fashion stylist Isabella Blow dies George Michael pleads guilty to driving while unfit due to drugs Paris Hilton rehires publicist she dumped after jail sentence Judge suspends David Hasselhoff's child visitation rights Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512542.html	'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Idol' finalist Jordin Sparks getting accustomed to new life in public eye Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:21 AM PDT GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) - At some point, "American Idol" producers must have shaken their heads, wondering how they passed over Jordin Sparks, whose soulful singing and girl-next-door likableness have gained fans week after week. Last summer, the Glendale, Ariz., native tried out for the Fox hit in Los Angeles and didn't even make it past the first round. "I know she worked really hard to get in shape just to learn how to perform a little bit more," said Kris Siegrest, Sparks' personal trainer and a longtime family friend. "Even when she went the first time, I was shocked she didn't make it." But since impressing the judges a few months later with "Because You Loved Me," the 17-year-old is now the youngest of three remaining "Idol" hopefuls. She is competing against Blake Lewis, 25, and Melinda Doolittle, 29, to win the big prize. Siegrest said it is surreal that Sparks has to go out "incognito" when doing something as simple as cheering her younger brother, P.J., at a basketball game. "She wore baggy clothes and a cap. Even there she got recognized," Siegrest said. "I thought that was really cool in the mix of all the business, she wanted to watch her brother play a junior high game." The daughter of retired NFL player Phillippi Sparks, Sparks spent most of her childhood in Glendale, a Phoenix suburb. Singing was a passion from the beginning. Churchgoers and family were usually her only audience. Bobb Cooper, artistic director at Valley Youth Theatre in Phoenix, remembers a 13-year-old Sparks only being cast in ensemble roles, like a poppy in "The Wiz." "She really has matured at gaining control of her voice. She gets better every week," Cooper said. Siegrest said having a father who was a pro athlete should help Sparks deal with her growing fame. At an early age, she experienced what it was like being in the public eye. "There's some responsibility that comes along with that, and I think she's very aware of it," Siegrest said. Pandy Raye, Sparks' former guitar teacher, said the teen's family would make sure she stayed role-model material. "Every decision they make, they really take a lot of time to see 'OK, how is this going to affect her?' She's just so grounded," Raye said. During the last year, Sparks was home schooled so she could focus on music. In September 2006, she snagged the title "Arizona Idol," a competition put on by the local Fox affiliate, and a second chance to audition for the show. Glendale has been throwing support behind Sparks with elaborate, outdoor "American Idol" viewing parties at a local shopping complex. Since March 20, the city of about 245,000 has seen hundreds of people from all over the state turn out to watch Sparks on two 14-foot TVs. The city also has been distributing free "Glendale supports Jordin" posters at its visitor center. On Friday, about 5,000 people weathered triple-digit heat to glimpse Sparks during a hometown appearance. Leeann Corless, a 34-year-old single mom, and her 10-year-old son have attended every viewing party since April. She believes Lewis will be the next one shown the door. "I always thought it was going to be between Jordin and Melinda," said Corless. "Of course she's going to be the winner. She's the most outgoing and she's the most charitable person." The cheerful disposition is no act, according to Siegrest. "What you see when she speaks and is giddy and kind of funny and smiling all the time, that's Jordin," Siegrest said. "What you're seeing is really her. She's fun and not afraid to look funny." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494122.html	Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Bob Geldof takes swipe at Al Gore's Live Earth idea "Live8" concert organizer Bob Geldof speaks during a news conference in Berlin on Wednesday, May 2, 2007. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:43 AM PDT AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) - Bob Geldof, who organized the Live Aid and Live 8 benefit concerts, criticized the Live Earth music events Al Gore is putting together this summer, saying they lack a specific goal, according to a Dutch newspaper report Saturday. The Live Earth concerts will be held in cities around the world on July 7, with proceeds funding a yet-to-be-named foundation to combat climate change, under Gore's direction. The shows will take place in London; New York; Tokyo; Shanghai, China; Johannesburg, South Africa; Sydney, Australia; and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Organizers have also promised an event in Antarctica. "I hope they're a success," De Volkskrant newspaper quoted Geldof as saying in an interview. "But why is (Gore) actually organizing them? To make us aware of the greenhouse effect? Everybody's known about that problem for years. We are all (expletive) conscious of global warming," he said. Geldof, former front-man of The Boomtown Rats, organized the mammoth Live Aid concerts in 1985 to benefit victims of famine in Ethiopia and the Live 8 concerts in 2005 for African debt relief. He has dedicated much of his career to advocating on behalf of humanitarian causes. "I would only organize (Live Earth) if I could go on stage and announce concrete environmental measures from the American presidential candidates, Congress or major corporations," he told the newspaper. "They haven't got those guarantees, so it's just an enormous pop concert or the umpteenth time that, say, Madonna or Coldplay get up on stage." Geldof also criticized the former vice president's choice of the name Live Earth. "It sounds like Live 8," he told the paper. "We're getting lots of responses from people who think we are organizing it." Gore could not immediately be reached Saturday for comment on the newspaper report. He was in Rio de Janeiro, where he implored people to attend that city's Live Earth show. "An estimated 2 billion people will be watching around the world, but the single largest event anywhere in the world will be here in Rio. I want to invite every person who cares about the environment in Brazil to come to the event here in Rio," Gore said. Gore said the concerts would mark the beginning of multiyear campaign to fight global warming. He said the concert was a fitting way to kick off such a campaign because "the task of saving the global environment is a task we should all approach with a sense of joy." Geldof also could not be reached to confirm the remarks, made at a conference in Budapest, Hungary. The Volkskrant is one of the largest national papers in the Netherlands. The headliners of the London Live Earth show at Wembley stadium are expected to be Madonna, the Beastie Boys, the Black Eyed Peas, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Keane and Foo Fighters. At the U.S. concert, to be held at Giants Stadium outside New York, Bon Jovi, the Dave Matthews Band, Kanye West, Rihanna, John Mayer, the Smashing Pumpkins and Fall Out Boy are slated to perform. The concerts will be broadcast in the U.S. by General Electric Co.'s NBC network and on more than 120 networks around the world, and streamed live online. Gore wrote the best-seller "An Inconvenient Truth," and later starred in a documentary film of the same name that popularized the science showing a link between human carbon dioxide emissions and global warming. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers 18-year-old in New York shoots himself without a gun Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7494212.html	India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment India actress files appeal in Richard Gere kissing case Richard Gere, left, hugs and kisses Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty in New Delhi, India, in this March 15, 2007, file photo. Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 7:52 AM PDT NEW DELHI (AP) - Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty appealed to the Supreme Court Monday to quash an arrest warrant issued against her and Hollywood star Richard Gere for violating the country's obscenity laws, a media report said. The court was scheduled to hear the appeal Tuesday, the Press Trust of India news agency reported. Court officials could not immediately be reached and a spokesman for Shetty declined to comment. A judge in the city of Jaipur issued the warrant last month for both Gere and Shetty after a kiss at a public AIDS awareness event in New Delhi. The public display of affection drew an outcry among Hindu hard-liners, with rallies against the actors held in several cities. But the judge's arrest order also drew harsh criticism in India, with some lawyers saying it had no legal merit and made the country look ridiculous. Gere, 57, apologized for any offense he may have caused in India, where public displays of affection are largely taboo. But he also said the whole controversy was manufactured by a small hardline political party. Gere, who left shortly after the kiss, is a frequent visitor to India, promoting health issues and the cause of Tibetan exiles. The Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, has his headquarters in the northern Indian town of Dharmsala. Shetty, a well-known actress in India, became an international star after her appearance on the British reality show "Celebrity Big Brother." A fellow contestant, Jade Goody, sparked international headlines by allegedly making racist comments to Shetty, 31. The comments sparked public outrage in Britain and India and Shetty went on to win the competition. The judge who issued the warrant has since been transferred from his post. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers 18-year-old in New York shoots himself without a gun Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512587.html	Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Paris Hilton is 'traumatized' over jail sentence, her psychiatrist says Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:23 AM PDT LOS ANGELES (AP) - Paris Hilton is "emotionally distraught and traumatized" over her 45-day jail sentence and isn't capable of testifying in a civil lawsuit against her, the socalite-reality TV star's psychiatrist said. Dr. Charles Sophy has been seeing Hilton, 26, for the past eight months and has talked with her several times since her May 4 hearing for violating the terms of her probation in an alcohol-related reckless driving case, according to court papers. Sophy said Hilton needs time to recover from the shock of receiving jail time before testifying in a civil case brought against her by actress and diamond heiress Zeta Graff. Messages left with Hilton's spokesman and lawyer weren't immediately returned early Tuesday. In court papers filed Monday, Sophy said Hilton is "distraught and traumatized as a consequence of the findings at the May 4 hearing ... and her fear of incarceration." "At this point in time," he continued, "Ms. Hilton cannot effectively respond to examination as a witness or provide any significant input into her defense." Graff filed a $10 million lawsuit against Hilton in 2005, claiming the reality TV star spread "vicious lies" about her. Hilton has denied that she was behind a report alleging Graff once tried to grab a necklace worth $4 million from her throat. Superior Court Judge Linda K. Lefkowitz postponed the trial to August. It had been scheduled to begin this month. Hilton and her pal Nicole Richie star on "The Simple Life," which throws them into everyday situations. After famously feuding and filming their parts separately last season, the celebutantes have reunited as camp counselors for the show's upcoming installment on the Comcast Corp.-operated E! network. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497152.html	Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Linkin Park leaves nu-metal behind for new sounds Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:44 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - "Hands Held High," one of the most powerful songs on Linkin Park's new album, includes lyrics about bombs blowing up mosques, a bumbling leader, high gas prices and general world confusion - an obvious missive against President Bush and the war in Iraq. Or maybe not. Tell that interpretation to Mike Shinoda, the rapper/musician who writes most of the lyrics for the blockbuster band, and you'll get an earful on making assumptions about the group's most adventurous album to date, "Minutes to Midnight." "We're not a political band. And I see some of the stuff that you're referring to ... as more social," says Shinoda, showing a glint of frustration as he and drummer Rob Bourdon sit in a studio, taking a break from rehearsals for upcoming shows. "I tend to be drawn towards people, the interaction with people and how emotional events make you feel, and because we're all older, I think that we are more aware of those things," says Shinoda, 30. "This record ... it's aware of what's going on inside and aware to a large degree on what's going on outside ourselves." The lyrics on the album, out Tuesday, are not the only signs of the band's development since the release of 2003's multiplatinum "Meteora." Once the leaders of rap-rock fusion, you'll hear less of Shinoda's signature rhymes on this record (he does sing on one track). And while lead singer Chester Bennington's screams are still as piercing as ever, they're less likely to be supported by the kind of music that defined the band as nu-metal. Some songs sound very pop, with arrangements that could even be described as mellow and tender. "We've taken a lot of risks on this record because of the stylistic changes that we've made," concedes the 31-year-old Bennington. "The one thing that people will notice the most is that there's not a nu-metal feel, but a lot of what we do is very Linkin Park ... We felt like we had done something very unique." "There's more maturity (but) I think it delivers the same emotional impact that they always have," says Mike Rich, senior vice president and general manager of AOL Entertainment, for which the band taped a raucous concert on Friday night. It was to premiere on the Web portal Monday. Doing something unique was an important goal for the band on "Minutes to Midnight." The six-member group had sold 10 million copies of their 2000 debut, "Hybrid Theory," and then another four million with "Meteora." Both albums explored feelings of frustration and fury with a mix of rock, hip-hop and metal. (The band also sold millions with its remix album, "Reanimation," and its mash-up record with Jay-Z, "Collision Course" - not including side projects such as Shinoda's successful group Fort Minor.) To help with their evolution, the group enlisted Grammy-winning producer Rick Rubin. They were longtime fans of Rubin, whose credits in the past year included Tom Petty, the Red Hot Chili Peppers, the Dixie Chicks and Slayer. "He suggested that we forget about what we think Linkin Park is supposed to sound like and just write whatever type of music we were inspired by at the moment," says Bourdon, 28. "It was really freeing." And many people will say "Minutes to Midnight" doesn't sound like Linkin Park. "The songs we felt strongly about have more melodies," says Bennington. "and those are the songs that turned up on the record." Then there's the content. Although Shinoda stresses that it's not a political album, the band references the nation's turmoil, from broken levees on "The Little Things Give You Away" to bitterness over leaders on "No More Sorrow." "We've always just stuck true to the music that we felt like making," says Bourdon. "If we were to try and go make the trilogy album for us, it wouldn't have felt right to us, it would have been like we were trying to be something that we're not." The band knows that some fans will want to hear a retread of their past sound. "We've gotten a lot of really positive response from fans, critics," says Bennington. "We've also gotten some feedback that's just like - I think it's going to take a while for some people to wrap their heads around what we've done." But the band hopes that once fans hear the music, they'll realize Linkin Park has changed for the better. "We hope that a lot of our fans are on the same page, and if they're not on the same page, that's fine too, maybe they will be later, maybe not, but we'll still be playing this album, we'll still be playing the other albums," says Shinoda. "And whoever wants to come the show is invited." Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers 18-year-old in New York shoots himself without a gun Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7512647.html	'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment 'Shrek the Third' has its moments, but lacks original zip Story Published: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT Story Updated: May 15, 2007 at 8:26 AM PDT By CHRISTY LEMIRE, AP Movie Critic "Shrek the Third" begins with a death, and from there the movie itself steadily dies. The third installment in this monster of an animated franchise still subverts the fairy tales we grew up knowing and loving, but it's smothered in a suffocating sense of been-there, done-that. Thankfully, as the films go along, they rely less on gratuitous pop-culture references. And visually this "Shrek" is more dazzling than ever, especially in the realistic background details. The water looks watery and the sand looks sandy and the trees look so lush and leafy you could practically jump out of your seat and climb into one of them. By now it's probably easy for all of us to take for granted how far CGI technology has come, and it's worth stopping to appreciate for a moment. But part three also lacks the zip of its predecessors; it feels draggy and, at the same time, rushed. (At 86 minutes, it's also the shortest film in the series.) Except for a few moments here and there, such as Prince Charming's gleefully corny stage productions and a Gingerbread Man flashback montage, much of the original sense of ingenious fun is gone. It doesn't help that so many tired "Shrek" wannabes, like "Hoodwinked" and "Happily N'Ever After," have been trotted out in recent years, making the real thing feel just as hackneyed. Chris Miller, previously a story artist, co-directed with animator Raman Hui. About a half-dozen people are credited as having contributed to the script, including Andrew Adamson, who directed the first two "Shrek" flicks. So there is a sense of consistency - it just doesn't feel all that fresh anymore. This time, the lovably cranky ogre Shrek (voiced reliably as always by Mike Myers) struggles with the prospect of becoming king of Far, Far Away after the death of King Harold, the father of his bride, Fiona (Cameron Diaz). He'd rather stay home in the swamp, lazing around all day. (Why Fiona can't take over in a fairy-tale land where the all the other rules have been upended is never addressed. She is the more even-tempered and levelheaded of the two, after all. Perhaps if Hillary were president ....) Anyway, Shrek sets out with his chatty sidekick Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and the suave Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas, still an adorable scene-stealer) to find the only other possible heir to the throne: the nerdy, insecure Artie, Fiona's teenage cousin, who is voiced by Justin Timberlake and looks like Corey Feldman. Artie is always on the receiving end of Lancelot's athletic jousts and is otherwise the butt of everyone's jokes at his medieval high school - the irony being, of course, that Timberlake has long been the coolest kid in the class. So when Shrek and his pals show up and offer him the kingdom, he's only to happy to take it. At first. Meanwhile, with hubby away, Fiona is left to defend the castle from Prince Charming (Rupert Everett), the vain former suitor she once jilted who has now come back to stage a bloody coup with a posse of vanquished villains (Captain Hook, the Evil Queen, etc.). Fiona - who's pregnant with the baby Shrek isn't sure he's ready for - gets some unexpected help on her end from longtime damsels in distress Snow White (Amy Poehler), Cinderella (Amy Sedaris), Rapunzel (Maya Rudolph) and Sleeping Beauty (Cheri Oteri), as well as her mother, Queen Lillian (Julie Andrews). It's a clever idea to have these characters transcend their stereotypes, but with the exception of Poehler's demanding diva, they all feel tossed in and underused. Like "Spider-Man 3," "Shrek the Third" throws more at us - including plenty of barf and flatulence jokes for the kids - but too little of it actually sticks. "Shrek the Third," a Paramount Pictures release, is rated PG for some crude humor, suggestive content and swashbuckling action. Running time: 86 minutes. Two stars out of four. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Family has questions after man is found dead Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers Holocaust survivor found, refuses to meet his son Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
http://www.komotv.com/news/entertainment/7497287.html	Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears | KOMO-TV - Seattle, Washington | Entertainment Body count rises as 'Sopranos' finale nears Story Published: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT Story Updated: May 14, 2007 at 10:55 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The body count for "The Sopranos" had a major bump Sunday as this HBO mob drama races toward its own termination. (Spoiler alert: If you plan to watch the episode later and don't want to learn the newest casualty, stop reading now.) With the series' conclusion just three episodes away (on June 10), this week's victim was Christopher Moltisanti, nephew of New Jersey mob boss Tony Soprano and, until lately, Tony's presumed successor. Death resulted from a car crash with Christopher at the wheel, but Tony, by then fed up with his destructive behavior, made sure the accident was decisive. It was early in the episode that Christopher (Michael Imperioli) and Tony (James Gandolfini) were returning from Manhattan, where they had a contentious meeting with New York boss Phil Leotardo. Barreling along a deserted New Jersey highway, the two of them groused about the deal going sour. Meanwhile, Christopher kept taking his eyes off the road to fine-tune his sound system (which notably was playing "Comfortably Numb" from the soundtrack for the recent film "The Departed"). Then his sport utility vehicle abruptly crossed the centerline. Christopher veered off the road to miss an oncoming car and crashed down a hill. Tony was banged up, but Christopher was in far more serious condition. Having suffered internal injuries, he was spitting up blood and gasping for breath. He pleaded for help. But before Tony could dial 911, the dazed Christopher added, as if about to face a DUI charge, "I'll never pass the drug test. Call me a taxi." Feeling betrayed yet again by Christopher (who had routinely vowed that he was drug-free), Tony made a fateful decision: It was time to solve this personnel problem. Tony pinched Christopher's nose, guaranteeing he would smother, and, looking comfortably numb, Christopher faded away. This short interlude led an hour that predominantly addressed the effect of Christopher's death on his family, the crew and Tony in particular. Played by Imperioli since "The Sopranos" premiered in 1999, Christopher was headstrong and homicidal, self-involved and erratic, all faults that were enhanced by his alcohol and drug addictions. Having collected many dangerous enemies (including Leotardo), Christopher was widely expected by "Sopranos" fans to meet a violent demise by the series' end. The circumstances and timing, however, were a surprise - as well as Tony's mixed reaction. Despite suffering pain, loss and guilt from Christopher's death, Tony also felt grateful relief from a burden he accurately described to his psychiatrist, Dr. Melfi, as "a weak, lying drug addict who fantasized about my downfall." At the end of the hour, Tony, who by then had bolted for a private getaway to Las Vegas, was watching the sun come up across the desert while, in a peyote haze, he bellowed out, "I get it!" Viewers were left to ponder just what it was he got. Get news alerts delivered to your e-mail or desktop. Watch ABC shows and news online, free! The latest news video from KOMO. KOMO News on the go for your cell phone or PDA. The latest news and features from KOMO. Listen to KOMO Radio anytime online. Get news and updates as soon as they're published. Have higher gas prices forced you to change your driving habits? Yes, I drive less Yes, I take the bus or train Yes, I now drive a more fuel-efficient car No, I still buy the same amount of gas Child run over in driveway dies at hospital Motorcyclist killed in high-speed crash The Schrammie: Sucking profit from the ground Man beats 91-year-old WWII vet, passersby turn a blind eye Family has questions after man is found dead 'I didn't know it was going to kill him' Bode Miller's cousin kills officer, then is killed by passer-by Man dies after being shocked with Taser during struggle with officers 18-year-old in New York shoots himself without a gun Copper River salmon arrive in style Hotlinks mentioned in our newscasts E-mail us your cheap gas prices Send us a News Tip Inflammatory Breast Cancer Info. 140 Fourth Ave. North, Main Phone (206) 404-4000 News Desk (206) 404-4145 Sales (206) 404-4391
