http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7751842.html Five U.S. soldiers killed in Afghanistan helicopter crash U.S. soldiers killed in Afghanistan helicopter crash PM PDT PM PDT KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) - Five U.S. soldiers were killed when their Chinook helicopter was apparently shot down in southern Afghanistan on Wednesday, a U.S. military official said. The Taliban claimed responsibility. Initial reports suggested the helicopter was hit with a rocket-propelled grenade, the U.S. military official, who was not authorized to release the information, said on condition of anonymity. It was not clear if there were any survivors, the official said. NATO's International Security Assistance Force confirmed that one of its helicopters crashed in southern Afghanistan, but it released no other details. A purported Taliban spokesman, Qari Yousef Ahmadi, claimed in a phone call to The Associated Press that militants had shot the helicopter down in Helmand province. That claim could not be immediately verified. AP reporter Lolita Baldor in Washington contributed to this report (Copyright 2007 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.)
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764187.html Unpredictable whales leave rescuers with new data, questions whales leave rescuers with new data, questions AM PDT AM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - The mysterious journey two humpback whales made into the Sacramento River was a great deal for the humans. Scientists got more face time with the species than they had ever enjoyed before, and thousands of sightseers got a whale-watching tour for free. What did the whales get? A gash in the side, a shot of antibiotics, some blasts with a fire hose. Perhaps that's why they apparently slipped back to sea under the cover of darkness, without so much as a goodbye. The unpredictable duo, believed to be a mother and calf, were last seen at sunset Tuesday less than 10 miles from the Golden Gate Bridge, after they traveled 25 miles southwest from another busy bridge. The convoy of boats that accompanied them across the bay to keep traffic at a distance abandoned their escort service when it got dark. Officials believe the whales slipped out of San Francisco Bay to the open sea late Tuesday or early Wednesday, when no one was watching. "With no confirmed sighting in the bay, we feel confident that it is highly likely that the animals are outside the Golden Gate," said Scott Hill, a division manager for the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration. For the first time since the pair were spotted near Sacramento on May 13, a whole day passed without any sightings of the whales. Officials became increasingly assured that the humpbacks, injured by a boat during their sojurn inland, were on the move and decided to stop searching. Marine scientists said Wednesday that although they will never know why the pair swam 90 miles inland, the massive operation to rescue the humpbacks yielded valuable information about the endangered species. It was the first time the same humpbacks were studied in the wild for so long, according to Bernadette Fees, deputy director of the California Department of Fish and Game. The information scientists gathered includes sound recordings, logs of their behavior and tissue samples from both the mother and calf, which will be analyzed to determine if they come from a pod of whales that travel between Mexico and California. "All those things are very hard to get. So what we are doing is filling up the knowledge bank on humpback whales in the wild," said Jim Oswald, a spokesman for the nonprofit Marine Mammal Center, a private scientific and rescue organization. The experience also could prove helpful in approaching other stranded whales, he said. After the whales were spotted near Sacramento on May 13, officials spent days trying to goad them back to the ocean, playing recordings of other whales, surrounding them with boats, blasting them with fire hoses and banging on metal pipes dangling beneath the water. Those involved in the rescue effort said they did not know if the various methods had hastened the whales' exit or hindered it. But they speculated Wednesday that antibiotics given to the whales on Saturday to try to slow the damage from their wounds may have marked a turning point, since the pair began their hasty retreat from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta after that. Biologists said the saltier water where the mother humpback whale and her calf had been swimming since leaving the delta helped reverse some of the health problems caused by long exposure to fresh water. Officials were unsure how much was spent on the rescue efforts, but they insisted the expenditures of time and money were justified, if not required under wildlife protection laws. "We certainly have a moral obligation as the agency assigned to protect them to do everything practical to get them safely into their natural habitat," said Brian Gorman, a spokesman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Biologists originally had planned to attach a satellite tracking tag to the mother humpback, but gusty winds and malfunctioning equipment stymied them. Distinct markings on both whales' tails were photographed so they could be identified in the future, Fees said. They might even make another inland trip someday. Humphrey, a humpback that famously strayed into San Francisco Bay in 1985, reappeared there five years later. "If we learned anything about these two, it is that they will do what they do when they want to do it," Fees said.
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7754737.html Saudi Arabian Guantanamo detainee dies in apparent suicide Arabian Guantanamo detainee dies in apparent suicide PM PDT PM PDT SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) - A Saudi Arabian detainee died Wednesday at Guantanamo Bay prison and the U.S. military said he apparently committed suicide. Guards at the U.S. Naval Base in southeast Cuba found the detainee in his cell unresponsive and not breathing Wednesday afternoon, the U.S. military's Southern Command said in a statement. "They tried to save his life but he was pronounced dead," said Mario Alvarez, a Miami-based spokesman for the command. It would be the fourth suicide at Guantanamo since the prison camp opened in January 2002. On June 10, 2006, two Saudi detainees and one Yemeni hanged themselves with sheets. Details, including the prisoner's name and manner of death, were not released. A spokesman for detention operations, Navy Cmdr. Rick Haupt, declined to comment, referring questions to the Miami-based Southern Command, which oversees U.S. military operations in the Caribbean and Latin America. The death came as the U.S. military prepared to try two detainees - Salim Ahmed Hamdan, a Yemeni, and Omar Khadr, a Canadian who was 15 when he was captured in a firefight with U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Their arraignment is scheduled to proceed on Monday at Guantanamo as planned, Navy Cmdr. Jeffrey Gordon, a Pentagon spokesman, said late Wednesday. Khadr on Wednesday fired his American attorneys, leaving him without defense counsel as his arraignment approaches, his former U.S. military attorney said. "He doesn't trust American lawyers, and I don't particularly blame him," said U.S. Marine Lt. Col. Colby Vokey, who was taken off the case Wednesday. "The United States is responsible for his interrogation and his treatment under a process that is patently unfair." The military toughened security at the prison camp following the previous suicides and an uprising last spring, taking measures to remove access to light fixtures and other possible makeshift weapons. About 380 men are held at the isolated prison camp on suspicion of links to al-Qaida or the Taliban. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service is conducting an ongoing investigation into the three previous suicides. A cultural adviser was helping the military handle the remains. "The remains of the deceased detainee are being treated with the utmost respect," the military said.
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764157.html Labor leaders divided over farm guest-worker provisions in immigration bill leaders divided over farm guest-worker provisions in immigration bill AM PDT AM PDT SANGER, Calif. (AP) - In the 1960s, farm labor leader Cesar Chavez rallied fieldhands to speak out against a guest worker program that recruited millions of Mexicans to pick crops at low wages. Today, farmworker advocates are throwing their weight behind a proposal in the current Senate immigration bill that would bring thousands of laborers to the country's most productive fields but offer them virtually no chance of putting down roots in the U.S. The United Farm Workers say it is their best shot at improving working conditions in fields nationwide, and especially in California, where 92 percent of workers are foreign-born. Activists complain that immigrant farmworkers are sometimes underpaid, not paid at all, overworked, exposed to pesticides, given poor housing or subject to other abuses. Some aging members of the last temporary-worker push - the Bracero Program, which operated from 1942 to 1964 - worry the plan could repeat past indignities. "If they're going to have braceros again, well, they need protection," said Agustin Oropeza, an 82-year-old from Zamora, Mexico, who picked oranges, lemons, lettuce and tomatoes in California in the 1940s and '50s. "They can't just leave them to sleep in the middle of the fields and drink from puddles, like they did with us." The proposed AgJobs program brokered between growers and the UFW over the past decade would open the way to legal status for those who worked in U.S. agriculture for at least 150 days over a two-year period ending Dec. 31, 2006. The program would be capped at 1.5 million. After that, new farm laborers would be recruited in their home countries and brought to the U.S. under an existing guest worker program, but would be able to stay for only 10 months at a time. They would not automatically qualify for citizenship and would have to wait an estimated eight years just to get on line. Even then, they would have little chance of winning permanent residency, because a new point system would give higher priority to people with education and skills. Farmers who claim labor shortages left fruit rotting on the ground last summer say it is a fair agreement. Union leaders are dismayed that newer recruits will not get a pathway to citizenship. Farmworker advocates previously had sought to insert that provision but said they had to sacrifice several key points to keep the compromise alive in this year's version of the bill. "We're willing to work through the process so we're at the table," said Diana Tellefson, executive director of the UFW Foundation, a nonprofit organization linked to the union. "We're going to fight tooth and nail to make sure that workers have the protections they need." The AFL-CIO and the Laborers' union oppose the broader immigration bill, arguing that workers here on a temporary basis are more vulnerable to labor violations. The AFL-CIO contends some pickers will stay in this country illegally rather than go home when their time is up - something that happened under the Bracero Program, too. Lulu Valdez, a young mother in Porterville, said her relatives in Mexico who work in the sugarcane harvest would willingly come to the U.S. for just a few months each year. But she added: "I just think a broader amnesty would be a lot better." The old Bracero program brought some 4.6 million Mexicans to the U.S. to work on farms and in railyards, easing the labor shortages that developed on the homefront during World War II. Chavez spoke out frequently against the program in the 1960s, which he believed exploited Mexican workers and kept down wages for domestic farmworkers. At the time, about half of the farm labor consisted of U.S. citizens. Now the bulk of the force is foreign-born. Russel Efird, who heads the Farm Bureau Federation in Fresno County, which produced $4.85 billion in crops and livestock last year, said he cannot be assured he can harvest his plum orchard unless AgJobs passes. "We know it's a fact that we have undocumented workers working in our fields," Efird said. "But if we can't get our crops harvested then where is our food going to come from?" sparks chaos with reckless U-turns
http://www.komotv.com/news/national Spain makes court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure If the vessel was Spanish or was removed from that country's waters, any treasure would belong to Spain, said James Goold, an attorney representing the government. Lugovoi alleges British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent The Russian businessman whom Britain has named as a suspect in the killing of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko claimed Thursday that he has evidence of British special services' involvement in the poisoning death. Unpredictable whales leave rescuers with new data, questions The mysterious journey two humpback whales made into the Sacramento River was a great deal for the humans. Scientists got more face time with the species than they had ever enjoyed before, and thousands of sightseers got a whale-watching tour for free. Labor leaders divided over farm guest-worker provisions in immigration bill U.S. investigating how TB traveler eluded border guards Condo fire erupts into inferno 'Law & Order' actor Thompson moves toward White House bid Saudi Arabian Guantanamo detainee dies in apparent suicide Five U.S. soldiers killed in Afghanistan helicopter crash Parents of missing British girl meet pope in St. Peter's Square For troops in Iraq, the war can be terrifying, frustrating and boring Tennessee trooper accused of tryst with porn star told he can resign 71-year-old man becomes oldest climber to scale Mount Everest Wayward humpback mother and calf moving closer to Golden Gate Bridge Family found hanged in Texas trailer; one infant still alive China sentences drug regulator to death over substandard medicines Contestants to vie for kidney of terminally ill patient on reality show Cindy Sheehan 'resigns' as protest leader, drained by criticism and partisanship Private security guards: a weak link in homeland security Military announces deaths of 8 American soldiers in Iraq Mountaineer picks up Mount Everest trash Man wrestles to ground wild leopard that leapt through window while he slept President Bush pays tribute to troops killed in war U.S. sees broad agreement with Iran on Iraq policy, but not on deeds Memorial to fallen Marine finances high school student visits to Arlington As lost whales make progress, rescuers fear encounters with ships Car bomber hits central Baghdad commercial district, killing at least 21 Venezuelans protest as TV station critical of Chavez is forced off air
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764222.html Lugovoi alleges British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent alleges British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent Russian businessman Andrei Lugovoi, left, enters Interfax news agency for a news conference in Moscow, Thursday, May 31, 2007. AM PDT AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - The Russian businessman whom Britain has named as a suspect in the killing of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko claimed Thursday that he has evidence of British special services' involvement in the poisoning death. Andrei Lugovoi, himself a former KGB agent, said Litvinenko tried to recruit him to gather compromising materials about Russian President Vladimir Putin for MI6, Britain's foreign intelligence agency. He claimed that British security services were unhappy with Litvinenko for boasting of his contacts with senior MI6 officials and spilling secrets. "It's hard to get rid of the thought that Litvinenko was an agent who got out of the secret service's control and was eliminated," Lugovoi told a news conference. "Even if it was not done by the secret service itself, it was done under its control or connivance." A British government security official, who demanded anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case, said the allegations were untrue. Britain's Foreign Office, responsible for MI6, declined to comment. Lugovoi claimed he had evidence of his allegations but that he would only give details to Russian investigators. Britain last week said it had enough evidence to charge Lugovoi, who also worked for the KGB and its main successor agency the FSB, in the November killing of Litvinenko. Litvinenko, who died of poisoning by the rare radioactive isotope polonium-210, had fled to Britain several years earlier after becoming a strong critic of the Kremlin and received British citizenship. Lugovoi and another Russian had met in London with Litvinenko on Nov. 1, the day Litvinenko said he became ill. Britain has requested Lugovoi's extradition, but Russia has refused, saying its constitution does not permit it. Lugovoi dismissed the British accusations against him as an attempt to divert attention from Litvinenko's contacts with British spy services. He claimed Litvinenko tried to recruit him during one of several business trips to Britain last year. At one point, he said, Litvinenko gave him a book for coding communications and a cell phone for contact with his British spy handlers. He said he refused to betray his country. "In conversations with me, Litvinenko often went beyond his role as a recruitment agent and told me many things he shouldn't have said," Lugovoi said. "I got an impression that he was really getting out of British secret services' control. He believed that the British undervalued him and paid him too little for his service." Oleg Gordievsky, a former top KGB spy who worked for MI6 and defected to Britain, dismissed Lugovoi's claims as "silly fantasies." He said Litvinenko had worked for domestic branches of the KGB and post-Soviet security structures and was of no interest to British intelligence. "MI6 not interested in information about the domestic service," Gordievsky, who was a friend of Litvinenko, said on British Broadcasting Corp. television. "Litvinenko was not needed. He made signals that he might be prepared, but they said, 'We don't need you,' so he didn't work for MI6." Konstantin Kosachev, the Kremlin-connected head of the foreign affairs committee in the lower house of the Russian parliament, urged British authorities to help investigate the "very serious accusations against British secret services." "I do believe they will take these new versions as seriously as it should be done," Kosachev said on Russia Today television. Lugovoi also claimed that Boris Berezovsky, a Russian billionaire living in self-exile in London who is among Putin's most powerful political foes, might have been involved in Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said Litvinenko was angry after Berezovsky, his longtime friend and patron, cut a living allowance he paid Litvinenko. Lugovoi claimed that Litvinenko told him he could prove that the tycoon received political asylum in Britain under false pretenses. Russia has long sought Berezovsky's extradition to face charges of financial crimes that date back to the 1990s. Berezovsky says the charges are politically motivated. Lugovoi claimed that Berezovsky, who briefly served as a deputy secretary of Russia's presidential Security Council during the 1990s, also was an MI6 agent and gave British intelligence sensitive information about Russia. Berezovsky called Lugovoi's allegations "absolutely false." "MI6 absolutely knows who are agents for its organization, it knows Berezovsky is not on that list," Berezovsky told The Associated Press. This is not the story of Lugovoi, this is the story the Kremlin wants to present to the world. The Kremlin in a corner. Putin is in a corner."
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764272.html Spain makes court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure makes court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure Odyssey co-founder Greg Stemm, left, and Project Manager Tom Dettweiler examine a coin recovered from the "Black Swan" shipwreck. AM PDT AM PDT TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - The Spanish government has filed claims in U.S. federal court over a shipwreck that a Florida firm found laden with colonial-era treasure, an attorney said Thursday. If the vessel was Spanish or was removed from that country's waters, any treasure would belong to Spain, said James Goold, an attorney representing the government. "It's a very well established principle under Spanish, U.S. and international law that a government such as the kingdom of Spain has not abandoned its sunken ships or sunken property, and that a company like Odyssey Marine Exploration may not conduct recovery operations without authorization by the government," he said. "The kingdom of Spain has not authorized any such operations by Odyssey, and by these legal actions it will see the return of any Spanish property Odyssey has recovered," Goold said of the claims filed Wednesday. Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. co-founder Greg Stemm said Thursday the company was working on a statement in response to Spain's claims. He has previously called Spain's legal threats "absurd" and said that Odyssey would notify all claimants once it conclusively determined the ship's identity. The company announced two weeks ago that it had discovered a shipwreck containing 500,000 gold and silver coins somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. The Tampa-based company said the site was outside any country's territorial waters but would not give the exact location or name of the ship. Odyssey has said that the ship was not in Spanish territorial waters and was not the HMS Sussex, a shipwreck that Odyssey recently got permission from the Spanish government to search for in the Strait of Gibraltar. But Spain has called the new discovery suspicious and said the booty may have come from a wrecked Spanish galleon. In Britain, the find generated press reports that Odyssey had salvaged the wreck of the long-sought British vessel Merchant Royal, which sank in bad weather off England in 1641. Odyssey has not confirmed or denied these reports. Spain is using the U.S. law firm Covington & Burling, which has represented Spain over shipwreck cases before, including the recovery of material from two ships, Juno and La Galga, in a 2000 court case. The Spanish government won the case at that time.
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7755632.html 'Law & Order' actor Thompson moves toward White House bid & Order' actor Thompson moves toward White House bid PM PDT PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Fred Thompson, the former Tennessee senator and ''Law & Order'' actor, is taking significant steps toward an expected summer entry into the crowded but extraordinarily unsettled Republican presidential race. His likely candidacy could give restless conservatives somewhere to turn. A crucial bloc of the GOP, those voters have not fully embraced the leading contenders, giving Thompson what his backers argue is an opening for a ''true conservative'' who can triumph in November 2008. The 64-year-old Southerner would bring a right-leaning Senate voting record with a few digressions from GOP orthodoxy and a dash of Hollywood star power given his many movie roles and TV stint as the gruff district attorney on NBC's popular crime drama. A Thompson bid also could make the contest to succeed President Bush even more topsy turvy; all three top-tier candidates - Rudy Giuliani, John McCain and Mitt Romney - could lose some measure of support and the seven underdogs could become even more irrelevant. Thompson will make his first formal campaign move in the coming days, establishing an official organization to weigh a White House bid while launching a major fundraising drive on Monday, according to several Republicans with knowledge of his plans. Speaking on condition of anonymity because the timeline is not public, these officials said Thompson may visit early primary states in late June and could officially enter the race as early as the first week in July. ''Senator Thompson is still seriously considering getting into the presidential contest and he is doing everything he has to do to make that final decision,'' said Mark Corallo, a Thompson spokesman. ''Stay tuned.'' On Thompson's schedule in the coming weeks: a speech to Virginia Republicans in Richmond on Saturday and an appearance with Jay Leno on ''The Tonight Show'' on June 12. One official said an overseas trip also may be in the works. For months, Thompson has openly flirted with a candidacy as a Tennessee-based effort sought to draft him into the race. He made several high-profile moves that pointed to a bid, not the least of which was disclosing that he is in remission after being diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma, a form of cancer. His popularity in national polls spiked to double digits early in the year, but while he still fares well in surveys, his numbers have fallen following what some Republicans considered a subpar speech in early May in California. That's prompted some rumblings in GOP circles that Thompson may have missed his opportunity to make a splash in the race. Undaunted, Thompson has been casting himself as a straight-talking conservative in the mold of former President Reagan in speeches and on the Internet. ''He's not Ronald Reagan, but he's Reaganesque,'' said Ted Malloch of Palm Beach, Fla., the chief executive of a consulting firm who is supporting Thompson. ''Fred is unique in the sense that all the boxes have been checked.'' During his 1994-2002 Senate tenure, he was considered a reliably conservative vote. He worked to limit the role of the federal government and backed a ban on a late-term abortion procedure. He voted in favor of Bush's tax cuts, oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, eliminating money for the National Endowment for the Arts and a constitutional amendment to ban flag desecration. And, he voted against requiring criminal background checks for purchases at gun shows. But he sometimes took paths that didn't necessarily sit well with conservatives, including advocating for campaign finance reform. While he voted to oust President Clinton from office, he also was one of 10 Republican senators who voted against one of the two impeachment charges. Social issues, important to the party's right, also typically weren't at the top of his agenda. He was known less as a legislator and more as an investigator, leading the committee that examined former President Clinton's fundraising in 1996. Yet, he established a reputation as a less-than-hard worker. The Democratic National Committee issued a research document Wednesday detailing Thompson's major legislative accomplishments. Save for the title and a DNC disclaimer, it was blank. Thompson was one of the few senators who backed underdog McCain in 2000 over George W. Bush, the establishment candidate. This time around, Thompson would be opposing McCain _ and could hurt his friend's own shot at the White House. The two have similar Senate records but Thompson could be seen as a fresher face to McCain, who is well-known to GOP voters. Romney, who is trying to position himself to the right of the major candidates, also could see his support fall among conservatives concerned about his shifts on issues. Campaigning in Iowa, Romney said he welcomed a Thompson entry. ''I think he'll make the race more interesting. He's got good ideas and after all, he does put bad people in jail every week on 'Law & Order,''' he said. Giuliani could be hindered as well if Thompson grabs the attention of Republicans uneasy with the former New York City mayor's support for gay and abortion rights. Campaigning in California, Giuliani said he would welcome Thompson, but argued that he was the stronger candidate based on his record of cutting taxes and combatting terrorism as well as his ability to win a general election. Ticking off states that went Democratic in 2004, such as California and New York, Giuliani said, ''Those are all states Republicans gave away in the past and the Democrats took for granted. ... It doesn't mean I'll win all of them, but if I win my fair share of them, then I'll get elected.'' Over the next few days, Thompson plans to form a ''testing the waters'' committee called ''Friends of Fred Thompson,'' which will allow him to begin raising money, hire staff and gauge support without officially committing to a White House bid. He could significantly dampen the fundraising ability of his potential GOP rivals during the homestretch of the second quarter financial reporting period. ''It's going to cause everybody to have second thoughts about writing a check,'' said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist who is unaligned in the race. Thompson spoke on a conference call Wednesday to several dozen people who officials called ''First Day Founders'' and said committed to raising money for him. Participants said they were asked to raise $46,000 apiece, the $2,300 maximum from 10 couples or 20 people. Officials cautioned that Thompson has made no final decision.
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764132.html U.S. investigating how TB traveler eluded border guards investigating how TB traveler eluded border guards Grady Memorial Hospital is shown Wed., May 30, 2007. An unidentified tuberculosis patient is being held under Federal quarantine at the facility. AM PDT AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The government is investigating how a globe-trotting tuberculosis patient drove back into the country even after his name was put on a no-fly list provided to border guards. The failure exposed a major gap in a system that is supposed to keep the direst of diseases from crossing borders. But the communications breakdown at a U.S.-Canada border crossing was only one of a series of missed opportunities to catch the Atlanta man and his wife who seemed determined to elude health officials. And worried infection specialists say it shows how vulnerable the nation is, from outdated quarantine laws and the speed of international flight, to killer germs carried by travelers. What if, they ask, the now-quarantined man had carried not hard-to-spread tuberculosis but something very contagious like the next super-flu? "It's regretful that we weren't able to stop that," said Dr. Martin Cetron of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said of how the man fled when U.S. health officials tracked him down in Rome and told him not to get on an airplane. Should the CDC have asked Italian health authorities to put the man in isolation there? That was under discussion when the CDC learned the man had fled, Cetron said. "We need to rely on people to do the right thing," Cetron said, saying the CDC hesitates to invoke its quarantine powers. "Can we improve our systems? Absolutely. There will be many lessons learned from this." The man has a rare but exceptionally dangerous form of TB, a type that international health authorities are desperate to curb because it is untreatable by most medications. The CDC was a step, or more, behind the man on his six-country odyssey. His name didn't get on the no-fly list until he apparently already was en route to Canada, Cetron said. But the CDC did get word to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol before the man and his wife crossed into the country at Champlain, N.Y., a Department of Homeland Security spokesman told The Associated Press on Wednesday. Customs "is reviewing the facts involved with the decision to admit the individuals into the country without isolation," said DHS spokesman Russ Knocke. Both Homeland Security's inspector general and internal affairs officials are investigating, reflecting the seriousness of the case, Knocke said. Congress is probing, too. The House Homeland Security Committee has scheduled a June 6 hearing. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said the case "shows that something is wrong with the training and supervision of our border agents. We put all this time and effort into identifying those who shouldn't enter our country, but what good is it if it can be brushed aside by a border guard? I shudder to think that this individual could have been a terrorist." Border security isn't the only issue. While the man now is cooperating with CDC investigators, he remains in federally ordered isolation, in a guarded room in an Atlanta hospital. His identity is being withheld to protect his privacy. But the nation's quarantine laws are so outdated that if the TB traveler challenged that order, "he would probably win in court," warned Lawrence Gostin, a public health law expert at Georgetown University who has advised the CDC's ongoing effort to update those laws. "There is a hole" in the nation's disease-security system, Gostin added. "The person's instinct to get back to the United States in this case is understandable. But that's exactly what the law's there for, to prevent a person from endangering other people. ... We need to update the entire process." Adding to the complexity is the tracking down of roughly 80 passengers who were close enough to the man on two trans-Atlantic flights to potentially have been exposed to TB, plus 27 crew members. The CDC has pushed for years for faster access to electronic lists of air passengers to trace their whereabouts in disease emergencies, and hopes to have new regulations to ease that access in place later this year. Where was he missed? The saga begins in mid-May, when Fulton County, Ga., health department officials say they told the man he had a drug-resistant form of TB and should not travel. The man contacted his hometown newspaper to contradict that, saying he was never told to cancel his May 12 flight to Paris for his wedding and honeymoon. The CDC caught up with him by cell phone in Rome a week and a half later, telling him that updated test results showed he had the worst form of TB, called "extensively drug-resistant" or XDR-TB. Cetron said a CDC official told him not to get on an airplane, that U.S. officials were working on how to get him home, but in the meantime he could seek medical care through the U.S. embassy or Italian hospitals. The man told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he interpreted that conversation as being stuck in Italy, and decided to sneak home, flying from Prague to Montreal and then driving to New York, because he feared he would die without treatment in the U.S. "I thought to myself: You're nuts. I wasn't going to do that. They told me I had been put on the no-fly list and my passport was flagged," the man said. Still, the man didn't violate any laws and faces no charges, CDC said. "There's a whole body of public health law that's going to be closely scrutinized and redefined with this case," said Michael Osterholm, an infectious disease expert who advises the government. "It's going to be looking back at what do you do when you have a non-compliant carrier of some infectious agent that is border-hopping?"
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7756287.html Condo fire erupts into inferno fire erupts into inferno PM PDT PM PDT By KATU Web Staff FORESTVILLE, Md. - A firefighter was seriously injured in a large condo fire in Maryland on Wednesday. Authorities said there was a problem with the firefighter's air equipment and he suffered serious burns to his respiratory tract after breathing in hot air. It took close to 100 firefighters nearly an hour to bring the inferno under control. The cause remains under investigation. More than 80 residents are now temporarily displaced.
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7744857.html Parents of missing British girl meet pope in St. Peter's Square of missing British girl meet pope in St. Peter's Square AM PDT AM PDT VATICAN CITY (AP) - Pope Benedict XVI held the hands of the parents of 4-year-old Madeleine McCann on Wednesday, blessing them and a photo of the girl as they asked for prayers for their daughter who disappeared while on a family vacation in Portugal. The pope spoke with the parents, each dressed in dark suits, as he greeted dignitaries seated in the front row during his weekly general audience in St. Peter's Square. "He was very kind, very sincere," Kate McCann told a news conference. She said Benedict assured them that he would "continue to pray for Madeleine's safe return." "It was more personal than I ever could have imagined," said Gerry McCann, adding that Benedict immediately recognized Madeleine's photograph. "His touch and thoughts and words were more tender than we could have hoped and that will sustain us during this most difficult time," he said. The Vatican had readily accepted the British couple's request to meet with the pope, as they press their campaign to publicize their daughter's disappearance. Devout Catholics, they recently prayed at the pilgrimage site in Fatima, Portugal, for her safe return. The couple also outlined plans in the hunt for their daughter, saying they would travel to Spain, Germany and the Netherlands - countries that send many tourists to the vacation area in Portugal. Gerry McCann brought a poster of his missing daughter, which has been widely distributed, to the news conference at the residence of the British ambassador to the Vatican. He said the family was asking people going on holiday to put up the posters to further publicize the disappearance. He said he was grateful for the outpouring of solidarity. "One evil act seems to be generating so much good," he said. "Obviously we have very mixed emotions about being here, and of course why we are here," Gerry McCann said as he arrived in St. Peter's Square. "In normal circumstances it would be one of the most exciting things we could do in our own lifetimes, but very much on our minds is the fact that we are here without Madeleine." A Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Ciro Benedettini, said British Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor had requested the McCanns' meeting with the pope. "We are talking about a family drama that has touched world public opinion. It could not but touch the Holy Father, especially since these people are Catholics," Benedettini said. "The Holy Father is considered the father of all, therefore he was personally touched as a father," the spokesman said. Madeleine McCann disappeared May 3 when her parents left her and her 2-year-old twin siblings alone in their hotel room while they went to a restaurant in their hotel complex in Praia da Luz, a resort town in Portugal's Algarve region. Gerry and Kate McCann have said they won't return to Britain without their daughter. Kate McCann is traveling with a pink stuffed animal - Cuddle Cat - that her daughter took to bed with her every night. "We have no plans to go back to the UK at the moment. I can't even think about that now, to be honest," she said.
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7751842.html Five U.S. soldiers killed in Afghanistan helicopter crash soldiers killed in Afghanistan helicopter crash May 30, 2007 at 2:29 PM PDT May 30, 2007 at 2:29 PM PDT KABUL, Afghanistan (AP) - Five U.S. soldiers were killed when their Chinook helicopter was apparently shot down in southern Afghanistan on Wednesday, a U.S. military official said. The Taliban claimed responsibility. Initial reports suggested the helicopter was hit with a rocket-propelled grenade, the U.S. military official, who was not authorized to release the information, said on condition of anonymity. It was not clear if there were any survivors, the official said. NATO's International Security Assistance Force confirmed that one of its helicopters crashed in southern Afghanistan, but it released no other details. A purported Taliban spokesman, Qari Yousef Ahmadi, claimed in a phone call to The Associated Press that militants had shot the helicopter down in Helmand province. That claim could not be immediately verified. AP reporter Lolita Baldor in Washington contributed to this report (Copyright 2007 by The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.) sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764187.html Unpredictable whales leave rescuers with new data, questions leave rescuers with new data, questions May 31, 2007 at 7:30 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 7:30 AM PDT SAN FRANCISCO (AP) - The mysterious journey two humpback whales made into the Sacramento River was a great deal for the humans. Scientists got more face time with the species than they had ever enjoyed before, and thousands of sightseers got a whale-watching tour for free. What did the whales get? A gash in the side, a shot of antibiotics, some blasts with a fire hose. Perhaps that's why they apparently slipped back to sea under the cover of darkness, without so much as a goodbye. The unpredictable duo, believed to be a mother and calf, were last seen at sunset Tuesday less than 10 miles from the Golden Gate Bridge, after they traveled 25 miles southwest from another busy bridge. The convoy of boats that accompanied them across the bay to keep traffic at a distance abandoned their escort service when it got dark. Officials believe the whales slipped out of San Francisco Bay to the open sea late Tuesday or early Wednesday, when no one was watching. "With no confirmed sighting in the bay, we feel confident that it is highly likely that the animals are outside the Golden Gate," said Scott Hill, a division manager for the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration. For the first time since the pair were spotted near Sacramento on May 13, a whole day passed without any sightings of the whales. Officials became increasingly assured that the humpbacks, injured by a boat during their sojurn inland, were on the move and decided to stop searching. Marine scientists said Wednesday that although they will never know why the pair swam 90 miles inland, the massive operation to rescue the humpbacks yielded valuable information about the endangered species. It was the first time the same humpbacks were studied in the wild for so long, according to Bernadette Fees, deputy director of the California Department of Fish and Game. The information scientists gathered includes sound recordings, logs of their behavior and tissue samples from both the mother and calf, which will be analyzed to determine if they come from a pod of whales that travel between Mexico and California. "All those things are very hard to get. So what we are doing is filling up the knowledge bank on humpback whales in the wild," said Jim Oswald, a spokesman for the nonprofit Marine Mammal Center, a private scientific and rescue organization. The experience also could prove helpful in approaching other stranded whales, he said. After the whales were spotted near Sacramento on May 13, officials spent days trying to goad them back to the ocean, playing recordings of other whales, surrounding them with boats, blasting them with fire hoses and banging on metal pipes dangling beneath the water. Those involved in the rescue effort said they did not know if the various methods had hastened the whales' exit or hindered it. But they speculated Wednesday that antibiotics given to the whales on Saturday to try to slow the damage from their wounds may have marked a turning point, since the pair began their hasty retreat from the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta after that. Biologists said the saltier water where the mother humpback whale and her calf had been swimming since leaving the delta helped reverse some of the health problems caused by long exposure to fresh water. Officials were unsure how much was spent on the rescue efforts, but they insisted the expenditures of time and money were justified, if not required under wildlife protection laws. "We certainly have a moral obligation as the agency assigned to protect them to do everything practical to get them safely into their natural habitat," said Brian Gorman, a spokesman for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Biologists originally had planned to attach a satellite tracking tag to the mother humpback, but gusty winds and malfunctioning equipment stymied them. Distinct markings on both whales' tails were photographed so they could be identified in the future, Fees said. They might even make another inland trip someday. Humphrey, a humpback that famously strayed into San Francisco Bay in 1985, reappeared there five years later. "If we learned anything about these two, it is that they will do what they do when they want to do it," Fees said. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7754737.html Saudi Arabian Guantanamo detainee dies in apparent suicide Guantanamo detainee dies in apparent suicide May 30, 2007 at 4:42 PM PDT May 30, 2007 at 7:12 PM PDT SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (AP) - A Saudi Arabian detainee died Wednesday at Guantanamo Bay prison and the U.S. military said he apparently committed suicide. Guards at the U.S. Naval Base in southeast Cuba found the detainee in his cell unresponsive and not breathing Wednesday afternoon, the U.S. military's Southern Command said in a statement. "They tried to save his life but he was pronounced dead," said Mario Alvarez, a Miami-based spokesman for the command. It would be the fourth suicide at Guantanamo since the prison camp opened in January 2002. On June 10, 2006, two Saudi detainees and one Yemeni hanged themselves with sheets. Details, including the prisoner's name and manner of death, were not released. A spokesman for detention operations, Navy Cmdr. Rick Haupt, declined to comment, referring questions to the Miami-based Southern Command, which oversees U.S. military operations in the Caribbean and Latin America. The death came as the U.S. military prepared to try two detainees - Salim Ahmed Hamdan, a Yemeni, and Omar Khadr, a Canadian who was 15 when he was captured in a firefight with U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Their arraignment is scheduled to proceed on Monday at Guantanamo as planned, Navy Cmdr. Jeffrey Gordon, a Pentagon spokesman, said late Wednesday. Khadr on Wednesday fired his American attorneys, leaving him without defense counsel as his arraignment approaches, his former U.S. military attorney said. "He doesn't trust American lawyers, and I don't particularly blame him," said U.S. Marine Lt. Col. Colby Vokey, who was taken off the case Wednesday. "The United States is responsible for his interrogation and his treatment under a process that is patently unfair." The military toughened security at the prison camp following the previous suicides and an uprising last spring, taking measures to remove access to light fixtures and other possible makeshift weapons. About 380 men are held at the isolated prison camp on suspicion of links to al-Qaida or the Taliban. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service is conducting an ongoing investigation into the three previous suicides. A cultural adviser was helping the military handle the remains. "The remains of the deceased detainee are being treated with the utmost respect," the military said. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764157.html Labor leaders divided over farm guest-worker provisions in immigration bill divided over farm guest-worker provisions in immigration bill May 31, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT SANGER, Calif. (AP) - In the 1960s, farm labor leader Cesar Chavez rallied fieldhands to speak out against a guest worker program that recruited millions of Mexicans to pick crops at low wages. Today, farmworker advocates are throwing their weight behind a proposal in the current Senate immigration bill that would bring thousands of laborers to the country's most productive fields but offer them virtually no chance of putting down roots in the U.S. The United Farm Workers say it is their best shot at improving working conditions in fields nationwide, and especially in California, where 92 percent of workers are foreign-born. Activists complain that immigrant farmworkers are sometimes underpaid, not paid at all, overworked, exposed to pesticides, given poor housing or subject to other abuses. Some aging members of the last temporary-worker push - the Bracero Program, which operated from 1942 to 1964 - worry the plan could repeat past indignities. "If they're going to have braceros again, well, they need protection," said Agustin Oropeza, an 82-year-old from Zamora, Mexico, who picked oranges, lemons, lettuce and tomatoes in California in the 1940s and '50s. "They can't just leave them to sleep in the middle of the fields and drink from puddles, like they did with us." The proposed AgJobs program brokered between growers and the UFW over the past decade would open the way to legal status for those who worked in U.S. agriculture for at least 150 days over a two-year period ending Dec. 31, 2006. The program would be capped at 1.5 million. After that, new farm laborers would be recruited in their home countries and brought to the U.S. under an existing guest worker program, but would be able to stay for only 10 months at a time. They would not automatically qualify for citizenship and would have to wait an estimated eight years just to get on line. Even then, they would have little chance of winning permanent residency, because a new point system would give higher priority to people with education and skills. Farmers who claim labor shortages left fruit rotting on the ground last summer say it is a fair agreement. Union leaders are dismayed that newer recruits will not get a pathway to citizenship. Farmworker advocates previously had sought to insert that provision but said they had to sacrifice several key points to keep the compromise alive in this year's version of the bill. "We're willing to work through the process so we're at the table," said Diana Tellefson, executive director of the UFW Foundation, a nonprofit organization linked to the union. "We're going to fight tooth and nail to make sure that workers have the protections they need." The AFL-CIO and the Laborers' union oppose the broader immigration bill, arguing that workers here on a temporary basis are more vulnerable to labor violations. The AFL-CIO contends some pickers will stay in this country illegally rather than go home when their time is up - something that happened under the Bracero Program, too. Lulu Valdez, a young mother in Porterville, said her relatives in Mexico who work in the sugarcane harvest would willingly come to the U.S. for just a few months each year. But she added: "I just think a broader amnesty would be a lot better." The old Bracero program brought some 4.6 million Mexicans to the U.S. to work on farms and in railyards, easing the labor shortages that developed on the homefront during World War II. Chavez spoke out frequently against the program in the 1960s, which he believed exploited Mexican workers and kept down wages for domestic farmworkers. At the time, about half of the farm labor consisted of U.S. citizens. Now the bulk of the force is foreign-born. Russel Efird, who heads the Farm Bureau Federation in Fresno County, which produced $4.85 billion in crops and livestock last year, said he cannot be assured he can harvest his plum orchard unless AgJobs passes. "We know it's a fact that we have undocumented workers working in our fields," Efird said. "But if we can't get our crops harvested then where is our food going to come from?" sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national makes court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure If the vessel was Spanish or was removed from that country's waters, any treasure would belong to Spain, said James Goold, an attorney representing the government. Lugovoi alleges British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent The Russian businessman whom Britain has named as a suspect in the killing of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko claimed Thursday that he has evidence of British special services' involvement in the poisoning death. Unpredictable whales leave rescuers with new data, questions The mysterious journey two humpback whales made into the Sacramento River was a great deal for the humans. Scientists got more face time with the species than they had ever enjoyed before, and thousands of sightseers got a whale-watching tour for free. Labor leaders divided over farm guest-worker provisions in immigration bill U.S. investigating how TB traveler eluded border guards Condo fire erupts into inferno 'Law & Order' actor Thompson moves toward White House bid Saudi Arabian Guantanamo detainee dies in apparent suicide Five U.S. soldiers killed in Afghanistan helicopter crash Parents of missing British girl meet pope in St. Peter's Square For troops in Iraq, the war can be terrifying, frustrating and boring Tennessee trooper accused of tryst with porn star told he can resign 71-year-old man becomes oldest climber to scale Mount Everest Wayward humpback mother and calf moving closer to Golden Gate Bridge Family found hanged in Texas trailer; one infant still alive China sentences drug regulator to death over substandard medicines Contestants to vie for kidney of terminally ill patient on reality show Cindy Sheehan 'resigns' as protest leader, drained by criticism and partisanship Private security guards: a weak link in homeland security Military announces deaths of 8 American soldiers in Iraq Mountaineer picks up Mount Everest trash Man wrestles to ground wild leopard that leapt through window while he slept President Bush pays tribute to troops killed in war U.S. sees broad agreement with Iran on Iraq policy, but not on deeds Memorial to fallen Marine finances high school student visits to Arlington As lost whales make progress, rescuers fear encounters with ships Car bomber hits central Baghdad commercial district, killing at least 21 Venezuelans protest as TV station critical of Chavez is forced off air sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764222.html Lugovoi alleges British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent Russian businessman Andrei Lugovoi, left, enters Interfax news agency for a news conference in Moscow, Thursday, May 31, 2007. May 31, 2007 at 7:32 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 7:32 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - The Russian businessman whom Britain has named as a suspect in the killing of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko claimed Thursday that he has evidence of British special services' involvement in the poisoning death. Andrei Lugovoi, himself a former KGB agent, said Litvinenko tried to recruit him to gather compromising materials about Russian President Vladimir Putin for MI6, Britain's foreign intelligence agency. He claimed that British security services were unhappy with Litvinenko for boasting of his contacts with senior MI6 officials and spilling secrets. "It's hard to get rid of the thought that Litvinenko was an agent who got out of the secret service's control and was eliminated," Lugovoi told a news conference. "Even if it was not done by the secret service itself, it was done under its control or connivance." A British government security official, who demanded anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case, said the allegations were untrue. Britain's Foreign Office, responsible for MI6, declined to comment. Lugovoi claimed he had evidence of his allegations but that he would only give details to Russian investigators. Britain last week said it had enough evidence to charge Lugovoi, who also worked for the KGB and its main successor agency the FSB, in the November killing of Litvinenko. Litvinenko, who died of poisoning by the rare radioactive isotope polonium-210, had fled to Britain several years earlier after becoming a strong critic of the Kremlin and received British citizenship. Lugovoi and another Russian had met in London with Litvinenko on Nov. 1, the day Litvinenko said he became ill. Britain has requested Lugovoi's extradition, but Russia has refused, saying its constitution does not permit it. Lugovoi dismissed the British accusations against him as an attempt to divert attention from Litvinenko's contacts with British spy services. He claimed Litvinenko tried to recruit him during one of several business trips to Britain last year. At one point, he said, Litvinenko gave him a book for coding communications and a cell phone for contact with his British spy handlers. He said he refused to betray his country. "In conversations with me, Litvinenko often went beyond his role as a recruitment agent and told me many things he shouldn't have said," Lugovoi said. "I got an impression that he was really getting out of British secret services' control. He believed that the British undervalued him and paid him too little for his service." Oleg Gordievsky, a former top KGB spy who worked for MI6 and defected to Britain, dismissed Lugovoi's claims as "silly fantasies." He said Litvinenko had worked for domestic branches of the KGB and post-Soviet security structures and was of no interest to British intelligence. "MI6 not interested in information about the domestic service," Gordievsky, who was a friend of Litvinenko, said on British Broadcasting Corp. television. "Litvinenko was not needed. He made signals that he might be prepared, but they said, 'We don't need you,' so he didn't work for MI6." Konstantin Kosachev, the Kremlin-connected head of the foreign affairs committee in the lower house of the Russian parliament, urged British authorities to help investigate the "very serious accusations against British secret services." "I do believe they will take these new versions as seriously as it should be done," Kosachev said on Russia Today television. Lugovoi also claimed that Boris Berezovsky, a Russian billionaire living in self-exile in London who is among Putin's most powerful political foes, might have been involved in Litvinenko's death. Lugovoi said Litvinenko was angry after Berezovsky, his longtime friend and patron, cut a living allowance he paid Litvinenko. Lugovoi claimed that Litvinenko told him he could prove that the tycoon received political asylum in Britain under false pretenses. Russia has long sought Berezovsky's extradition to face charges of financial crimes that date back to the 1990s. Berezovsky says the charges are politically motivated. Lugovoi claimed that Berezovsky, who briefly served as a deputy secretary of Russia's presidential Security Council during the 1990s, also was an MI6 agent and gave British intelligence sensitive information about Russia. Berezovsky called Lugovoi's allegations "absolutely false." "MI6 absolutely knows who are agents for its organization, it knows Berezovsky is not on that list," Berezovsky told The Associated Press. This is not the story of Lugovoi, this is the story the Kremlin wants to present to the world. The Kremlin in a corner. Putin is in a corner." sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764272.html Spain makes court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure Odyssey co-founder Greg Stemm, left, and Project Manager Tom Dettweiler examine a coin recovered from the "Black Swan" shipwreck. May 31, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT TAMPA, Fla. (AP) - The Spanish government has filed claims in U.S. federal court over a shipwreck that a Florida firm found laden with colonial-era treasure, an attorney said Thursday. If the vessel was Spanish or was removed from that country's waters, any treasure would belong to Spain, said James Goold, an attorney representing the government. "It's a very well established principle under Spanish, U.S. and international law that a government such as the kingdom of Spain has not abandoned its sunken ships or sunken property, and that a company like Odyssey Marine Exploration may not conduct recovery operations without authorization by the government," he said. "The kingdom of Spain has not authorized any such operations by Odyssey, and by these legal actions it will see the return of any Spanish property Odyssey has recovered," Goold said of the claims filed Wednesday. Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. co-founder Greg Stemm said Thursday the company was working on a statement in response to Spain's claims. He has previously called Spain's legal threats "absurd" and said that Odyssey would notify all claimants once it conclusively determined the ship's identity. The company announced two weeks ago that it had discovered a shipwreck containing 500,000 gold and silver coins somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. The Tampa-based company said the site was outside any country's territorial waters but would not give the exact location or name of the ship. Odyssey has said that the ship was not in Spanish territorial waters and was not the HMS Sussex, a shipwreck that Odyssey recently got permission from the Spanish government to search for in the Strait of Gibraltar. But Spain has called the new discovery suspicious and said the booty may have come from a wrecked Spanish galleon. In Britain, the find generated press reports that Odyssey had salvaged the wreck of the long-sought British vessel Merchant Royal, which sank in bad weather off England in 1641. Odyssey has not confirmed or denied these reports. Spain is using the U.S. law firm Covington & Burling, which has represented Spain over shipwreck cases before, including the recovery of material from two ships, Juno and La Galga, in a 2000 court case. The Spanish government won the case at that time. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7755632.html 'Law & Order' actor Thompson moves toward White House bid Order' actor Thompson moves toward White House bid May 30, 2007 at 5:42 PM PDT May 30, 2007 at 5:42 PM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Fred Thompson, the former Tennessee senator and ''Law & Order'' actor, is taking significant steps toward an expected summer entry into the crowded but extraordinarily unsettled Republican presidential race. His likely candidacy could give restless conservatives somewhere to turn. A crucial bloc of the GOP, those voters have not fully embraced the leading contenders, giving Thompson what his backers argue is an opening for a ''true conservative'' who can triumph in November 2008. The 64-year-old Southerner would bring a right-leaning Senate voting record with a few digressions from GOP orthodoxy and a dash of Hollywood star power given his many movie roles and TV stint as the gruff district attorney on NBC's popular crime drama. A Thompson bid also could make the contest to succeed President Bush even more topsy turvy; all three top-tier candidates - Rudy Giuliani, John McCain and Mitt Romney - could lose some measure of support and the seven underdogs could become even more irrelevant. Thompson will make his first formal campaign move in the coming days, establishing an official organization to weigh a White House bid while launching a major fundraising drive on Monday, according to several Republicans with knowledge of his plans. Speaking on condition of anonymity because the timeline is not public, these officials said Thompson may visit early primary states in late June and could officially enter the race as early as the first week in July. ''Senator Thompson is still seriously considering getting into the presidential contest and he is doing everything he has to do to make that final decision,'' said Mark Corallo, a Thompson spokesman. ''Stay tuned.'' On Thompson's schedule in the coming weeks: a speech to Virginia Republicans in Richmond on Saturday and an appearance with Jay Leno on ''The Tonight Show'' on June 12. One official said an overseas trip also may be in the works. For months, Thompson has openly flirted with a candidacy as a Tennessee-based effort sought to draft him into the race. He made several high-profile moves that pointed to a bid, not the least of which was disclosing that he is in remission after being diagnosed with non-Hodgkins lymphoma, a form of cancer. His popularity in national polls spiked to double digits early in the year, but while he still fares well in surveys, his numbers have fallen following what some Republicans considered a subpar speech in early May in California. That's prompted some rumblings in GOP circles that Thompson may have missed his opportunity to make a splash in the race. Undaunted, Thompson has been casting himself as a straight-talking conservative in the mold of former President Reagan in speeches and on the Internet. ''He's not Ronald Reagan, but he's Reaganesque,'' said Ted Malloch of Palm Beach, Fla., the chief executive of a consulting firm who is supporting Thompson. ''Fred is unique in the sense that all the boxes have been checked.'' During his 1994-2002 Senate tenure, he was considered a reliably conservative vote. He worked to limit the role of the federal government and backed a ban on a late-term abortion procedure. He voted in favor of Bush's tax cuts, oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, eliminating money for the National Endowment for the Arts and a constitutional amendment to ban flag desecration. And, he voted against requiring criminal background checks for purchases at gun shows. But he sometimes took paths that didn't necessarily sit well with conservatives, including advocating for campaign finance reform. While he voted to oust President Clinton from office, he also was one of 10 Republican senators who voted against one of the two impeachment charges. Social issues, important to the party's right, also typically weren't at the top of his agenda. He was known less as a legislator and more as an investigator, leading the committee that examined former President Clinton's fundraising in 1996. Yet, he established a reputation as a less-than-hard worker. The Democratic National Committee issued a research document Wednesday detailing Thompson's major legislative accomplishments. Save for the title and a DNC disclaimer, it was blank. Thompson was one of the few senators who backed underdog McCain in 2000 over George W. Bush, the establishment candidate. This time around, Thompson would be opposing McCain _ and could hurt his friend's own shot at the White House. The two have similar Senate records but Thompson could be seen as a fresher face to McCain, who is well-known to GOP voters. Romney, who is trying to position himself to the right of the major candidates, also could see his support fall among conservatives concerned about his shifts on issues. Campaigning in Iowa, Romney said he welcomed a Thompson entry. ''I think he'll make the race more interesting. He's got good ideas and after all, he does put bad people in jail every week on 'Law & Order,''' he said. Giuliani could be hindered as well if Thompson grabs the attention of Republicans uneasy with the former New York City mayor's support for gay and abortion rights. Campaigning in California, Giuliani said he would welcome Thompson, but argued that he was the stronger candidate based on his record of cutting taxes and combatting terrorism as well as his ability to win a general election. Ticking off states that went Democratic in 2004, such as California and New York, Giuliani said, ''Those are all states Republicans gave away in the past and the Democrats took for granted. ... It doesn't mean I'll win all of them, but if I win my fair share of them, then I'll get elected.'' Over the next few days, Thompson plans to form a ''testing the waters'' committee called ''Friends of Fred Thompson,'' which will allow him to begin raising money, hire staff and gauge support without officially committing to a White House bid. He could significantly dampen the fundraising ability of his potential GOP rivals during the homestretch of the second quarter financial reporting period. ''It's going to cause everybody to have second thoughts about writing a check,'' said Scott Reed, a Republican strategist who is unaligned in the race. Thompson spoke on a conference call Wednesday to several dozen people who officials called ''First Day Founders'' and said committed to raising money for him. Participants said they were asked to raise $46,000 apiece, the $2,300 maximum from 10 couples or 20 people. Officials cautioned that Thompson has made no final decision. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7764132.html U.S. investigating how TB traveler eluded border guards how TB traveler eluded border guards Grady Memorial Hospital is shown Wed., May 30, 2007. An unidentified tuberculosis patient is being held under Federal quarantine at the facility. May 31, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - The government is investigating how a globe-trotting tuberculosis patient drove back into the country even after his name was put on a no-fly list provided to border guards. The failure exposed a major gap in a system that is supposed to keep the direst of diseases from crossing borders. But the communications breakdown at a U.S.-Canada border crossing was only one of a series of missed opportunities to catch the Atlanta man and his wife who seemed determined to elude health officials. And worried infection specialists say it shows how vulnerable the nation is, from outdated quarantine laws and the speed of international flight, to killer germs carried by travelers. What if, they ask, the now-quarantined man had carried not hard-to-spread tuberculosis but something very contagious like the next super-flu? "It's regretful that we weren't able to stop that," said Dr. Martin Cetron of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said of how the man fled when U.S. health officials tracked him down in Rome and told him not to get on an airplane. Should the CDC have asked Italian health authorities to put the man in isolation there? That was under discussion when the CDC learned the man had fled, Cetron said. "We need to rely on people to do the right thing," Cetron said, saying the CDC hesitates to invoke its quarantine powers. "Can we improve our systems? Absolutely. There will be many lessons learned from this." The man has a rare but exceptionally dangerous form of TB, a type that international health authorities are desperate to curb because it is untreatable by most medications. The CDC was a step, or more, behind the man on his six-country odyssey. His name didn't get on the no-fly list until he apparently already was en route to Canada, Cetron said. But the CDC did get word to U.S. Customs and Border Patrol before the man and his wife crossed into the country at Champlain, N.Y., a Department of Homeland Security spokesman told The Associated Press on Wednesday. Customs "is reviewing the facts involved with the decision to admit the individuals into the country without isolation," said DHS spokesman Russ Knocke. Both Homeland Security's inspector general and internal affairs officials are investigating, reflecting the seriousness of the case, Knocke said. Congress is probing, too. The House Homeland Security Committee has scheduled a June 6 hearing. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said the case "shows that something is wrong with the training and supervision of our border agents. We put all this time and effort into identifying those who shouldn't enter our country, but what good is it if it can be brushed aside by a border guard? I shudder to think that this individual could have been a terrorist." Border security isn't the only issue. While the man now is cooperating with CDC investigators, he remains in federally ordered isolation, in a guarded room in an Atlanta hospital. His identity is being withheld to protect his privacy. But the nation's quarantine laws are so outdated that if the TB traveler challenged that order, "he would probably win in court," warned Lawrence Gostin, a public health law expert at Georgetown University who has advised the CDC's ongoing effort to update those laws. "There is a hole" in the nation's disease-security system, Gostin added. "The person's instinct to get back to the United States in this case is understandable. But that's exactly what the law's there for, to prevent a person from endangering other people. ... We need to update the entire process." Adding to the complexity is the tracking down of roughly 80 passengers who were close enough to the man on two trans-Atlantic flights to potentially have been exposed to TB, plus 27 crew members. The CDC has pushed for years for faster access to electronic lists of air passengers to trace their whereabouts in disease emergencies, and hopes to have new regulations to ease that access in place later this year. Where was he missed? The saga begins in mid-May, when Fulton County, Ga., health department officials say they told the man he had a drug-resistant form of TB and should not travel. The man contacted his hometown newspaper to contradict that, saying he was never told to cancel his May 12 flight to Paris for his wedding and honeymoon. The CDC caught up with him by cell phone in Rome a week and a half later, telling him that updated test results showed he had the worst form of TB, called "extensively drug-resistant" or XDR-TB. Cetron said a CDC official told him not to get on an airplane, that U.S. officials were working on how to get him home, but in the meantime he could seek medical care through the U.S. embassy or Italian hospitals. The man told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he interpreted that conversation as being stuck in Italy, and decided to sneak home, flying from Prague to Montreal and then driving to New York, because he feared he would die without treatment in the U.S. "I thought to myself: You're nuts. I wasn't going to do that. They told me I had been put on the no-fly list and my passport was flagged," the man said. Still, the man didn't violate any laws and faces no charges, CDC said. "There's a whole body of public health law that's going to be closely scrutinized and redefined with this case," said Michael Osterholm, an infectious disease expert who advises the government. "It's going to be looking back at what do you do when you have a non-compliant carrier of some infectious agent that is border-hopping?" sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7756287.html Condo fire erupts into inferno erupts into inferno May 30, 2007 at 6:34 PM PDT May 30, 2007 at 6:34 PM PDT By KATU Web Staff FORESTVILLE, Md. - A firefighter was seriously injured in a large condo fire in Maryland on Wednesday. Authorities said there was a problem with the firefighter's air equipment and he suffered serious burns to his respiratory tract after breathing in hot air. It took close to 100 firefighters nearly an hour to bring the inferno under control. The cause remains under investigation. More than 80 residents are now temporarily displaced. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7744857.html Parents of missing British girl meet pope in St. Peter's Square missing British girl meet pope in St. Peter's Square May 30, 2007 at 8:00 AM PDT May 30, 2007 at 8:00 AM PDT VATICAN CITY (AP) - Pope Benedict XVI held the hands of the parents of 4-year-old Madeleine McCann on Wednesday, blessing them and a photo of the girl as they asked for prayers for their daughter who disappeared while on a family vacation in Portugal. The pope spoke with the parents, each dressed in dark suits, as he greeted dignitaries seated in the front row during his weekly general audience in St. Peter's Square. "He was very kind, very sincere," Kate McCann told a news conference. She said Benedict assured them that he would "continue to pray for Madeleine's safe return." "It was more personal than I ever could have imagined," said Gerry McCann, adding that Benedict immediately recognized Madeleine's photograph. "His touch and thoughts and words were more tender than we could have hoped and that will sustain us during this most difficult time," he said. The Vatican had readily accepted the British couple's request to meet with the pope, as they press their campaign to publicize their daughter's disappearance. Devout Catholics, they recently prayed at the pilgrimage site in Fatima, Portugal, for her safe return. The couple also outlined plans in the hunt for their daughter, saying they would travel to Spain, Germany and the Netherlands - countries that send many tourists to the vacation area in Portugal. Gerry McCann brought a poster of his missing daughter, which has been widely distributed, to the news conference at the residence of the British ambassador to the Vatican. He said the family was asking people going on holiday to put up the posters to further publicize the disappearance. He said he was grateful for the outpouring of solidarity. "One evil act seems to be generating so much good," he said. "Obviously we have very mixed emotions about being here, and of course why we are here," Gerry McCann said as he arrived in St. Peter's Square. "In normal circumstances it would be one of the most exciting things we could do in our own lifetimes, but very much on our minds is the fact that we are here without Madeleine." A Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Ciro Benedettini, said British Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor had requested the McCanns' meeting with the pope. "We are talking about a family drama that has touched world public opinion. It could not but touch the Holy Father, especially since these people are Catholics," Benedettini said. "The Holy Father is considered the father of all, therefore he was personally touched as a father," the spokesman said. Madeleine McCann disappeared May 3 when her parents left her and her 2-year-old twin siblings alone in their hotel room while they went to a restaurant in their hotel complex in Praia da Luz, a resort town in Portugal's Algarve region. Gerry and Kate McCann have said they won't return to Britain without their daughter. Kate McCann is traveling with a pink stuffed animal - Cuddle Cat - that her daughter took to bed with her every night. "We have no plans to go back to the UK at the moment. I can't even think about that now, to be honest," she said. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7827337.html Grand jury indicts Rep. Jefferson in bribery investigation & World News Grand jury indicts Rep. Jefferson in bribery investigation Rep. William Jefferson, D-La., makes a statement upon his arrival at Washington's National Airport in this May 22, 2006 file photo. Jun 4, 2007 at 11:41 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 11:41 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - Rep. William Jefferson, D-La., was indicted Monday on federal charges of racketeering, soliciting bribes and money-laundering in a long-running bribery investigation into business deals he tried to broker in Africa. The indictment handed up in federal court in Alexandria., Va., Monday is 94 pages long and lists 16 alleged violations of federal law that could keep Jefferson in prison for up to 235 years, according to a Justice Department official who has seen the document. Among the charges listed in the indictment, said the official, are racketeering, soliciting bribes, wire fraud, money-laundering, obstruction of justice, conspiracy and violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the case. Jefferson is accused of soliciting bribes for himself and his family, and also for bribing a Nigerian official. Almost two years ago, in August 2005, investigators raided Jefferson's home in Louisiana and found $90,000 in cash stuffed into a box in his freezer. Jefferson, 63, whose Louisiana district includes New Orleans, has said little about the case publicly but has maintained his innocence. He was re-elected last year despite the looming investigation. Jefferson, in Louisiana on Monday, could not immediately be reached for comment. Two of Jefferson's associates have already struck plea bargains with prosecutors and have been sentenced. Brett Pfeffer, a former congressional aide, admitted soliciting bribes on Jefferson's behalf and was sentenced to eight years in prison. Another Jefferson associate, Louisville, Ky., telecommunications executive Vernon Jackson, pleaded guilty to paying between $400,000 and $1 million in bribes to Jefferson in exchange for his assistance securing business deals in Nigeria and other African nations. Jackson was sentenced to more than seven years in prison. Both Pfeffer and Jackson agreed to cooperate in the case against Jefferson in exchanges for their pleas. The impact of the case has stretched across continents and even roiled presidential politics in Nigeria. According to court records, Jefferson told associates that he needed cash to pay bribes to the country's vice president, Atiku Abubakar. Abubakar denied the allegations, which figured prominently in that country's presidential elections in April. Abubakar ran for the presidency and finished third. Court records indicate that Jefferson was videotape taking a $100,000 cash bribe from an FBI informant. Most of that money later turned up in a freezer in Jefferson's home. In May 2006, the FBI raided Jefferson's congressional office, the first such raid on a sitting congressman's Capitol office. That move sparked a constitutional debate over whether the executive branch stepped over its boundary. The legality of the raid is still being argued on appeal. House leaders objected to the search saying it was an unconstitutional intrusion on the lawmaking process. The FBI said the raid was necessary because Jefferson and his legal team had failed to respond to requests for documents. Some but not all the documents seized in the raid have been turned over Justice Department prosecutors. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7814102.html Democratic candidates square off over war on terror, Iraq & World News Democratic candidates square off over war on terror, Iraq Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton answers a question as Sen. Barack Obama of Illinois looks on in Orangeburg, S.C., on April 26, 2007. Jun 3, 2007 at 11:43 AM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 6:29 PM PDT MANCHESTER, N.H. (AP) - Democratic presidential candidates clashed on Sunday on Iraq and over the security of the country since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. Former North Carolina Sen. John Edwards, trailing both New York Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton and Illinois Sen. Barack Obama in national polls, criticized their cautious approach in forcing President Bush to withdraw troops from Iraq. While some members of Congress spoke out "loudly and clearly" last month against legislation to pay for the war through September but without a withdrawal timetable, "others did not," Edwards said. "They went quietly to the floor of the Senate, cast the right vote. But there is a difference between leadership and legislating," Edwards told his rivals during the second Democratic debate. Both Clinton and Obama voted against the bill - which passed - but without making a strong case against the legislation. "I think it's obvious who I'm talking about," Edwards said. Clinton disagreed with Edwards, both in his comments on her role on Iraq and in his characterization of Bush's global war on terrorism as a "political slogan, a bumper sticker." As a New Yorker, "I have seen first hand the terrible damage that can be inflicted on our country by a small band of terrorists," Clinton said. Still, she said, "I believe we are safer than we were." At the conclusion of the two-hour debate, the candidates were asked what their top priority would be for their first 100 days in office: - Edwards: "travel the world" and "re-establish America's moral authority." - Clinton: bring home U.S. troops from Iraq. - Obama: bring home U.S. troops and push for national health care. - New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson: upgrade U.S. schools and push a $40,000-a-year minimum wage for teachers. - Delaware Sen. Joe Biden: end the war in Iraq and defuse tensions with Iran and North Korea. - Ohio Rep. Dennis Kucinich: help "reshape the world for peace" and end all nuclear weapons. - Former Alaska Sen. Mike Gravel: Remind Congressional leaders they can end the war in Iraq now. - Connecticut Sen. Chris Dodd: "Restore constitutional rights in this country." The candidates sought to highlight their own differences on the war in Iraq. Obama told Edwards, who voted in October 2002 to authorize the war in Iraq but now says that the vote was a mistake: "John, you're about four and a half years late on leadership on this issue." Obama was not in the Senate at the time of the vote but had voiced opposition to the war resolution at the time. Edwards conceded, "He was right, I was wrong" on opposing the war from the beginning. And Edwards sought to highlight his change of heart on his vote with Clinton's continuing refusal to disavow her vote for the war resolution. Said Clinton: "That was a sincere vote." She again declined to say her vote was wrong. Kucinich said the war on Iraq should not just be blamed on Bush, but on the Congress that authorized it. U.S. troops "never should have been sent there in the first place," he said. Rather than debate timetables and benchmarks, the Democratic-controlled Congress should "just say no money, the war's over," he said. To a question on whether English should be the official language in the United States, only former Alaska Sen. Mike Gravel raised his hand in the affirmative. But Obama protested the question itself, calling it "the kind of question that was designed precisely to divide us." He said such questions "do a disservice to the American people." All the candidates raised their hands when asked by moderator Wolf Blitzer if they would get rid of the "don't ask, don't tell" policy on gays in the military instituted by President Clinton. Was it a mistake? Clinton said her husband's 1993 formulation "was a transition policy," but one that is no longer valid. She said it is being "implemented in a discriminatory manner" and has been used to discharge Arabic linguists when such translators are in short supply. Asked what role former President Clinton would play in a new Democratic White House, she said, "Bill Clinton, my dear husband, would be sent around the world as a roving ambassador." Obama ducked the question. Richardson said he would send the former president to the Middle East as a peace envoy. Gravel said, he would use him as a traveling goodwill ambassador. "He can take his wife with him, she'll still be in the Senate," Gravel said to laughter. Edwards also challenged Obama, who recently unveiled his health care plan, on the need for universal coverage. Edwards was the first Democratic candidate to offer a proposal and he complained that Obama's plan falls short of offering universal coverage. Candidates also split on ways to pressure the government of Sudan to end violence in its Darfur region, where more than 200,000 people have been killed in four years of fighting between local rebels and government forces. Richardson suggested leaning on China - up to a possible threatened boycott of the 2008 summer Olympics - to pressure Sudan to allow in more U.N. peacekeepers. Clinton declined to say whether she would use military force in Darfur, saying she didn't want to "talk about these hypotheticals." The candidates squared off as a new national poll found Clinton maintaining a significant lead over her rivals. The Washington Post/ABC News poll found the former first lady leading the field with 42 percent support among adults, compared with 27 percent for Obama and 11 percent for Edwards. CNN, WMUR-TV and the New Hampshire Union Leader presented the debate. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7822882.html Anti-globalization protesters clash with police ahead of G-8 summit & World News Anti-globalization protesters clash with police ahead of G-8 summit Jun 4, 2007 at 7:23 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 7:23 AM PDT ROSTOCK, Germany (AP) - Hundreds of protesters clashed with police Monday ahead of this week's Group of Eight meeting, as anti-globalization activists challenged attempts by security officials to keep them away from the summit town of Heiligendamm. About 800 protesters demonstrated outside Rostock's immigration office demanding "global freedom of movement and equal rights for all," including refugees and asylum seekers. After a peaceful start, the demonstration turned violent and "some protesters started to throw bottles at officers," police spokesman Lyder Behrens said. The Web site Spiegel Online reported that a photojournalist was injured and four people were detained when 400 demonstrators clashed with police. Police could not immediately confirm the report. Another 20,000 demonstrators were expected to hold an anti-G-8 rally in downtown Rostock later Monday. On Saturday, around 3,000 black-hooded anti-G-8 protesters had pelted police with rocks and bottles in Rostock. Authorities said more than 400 officers were injured, 30 of whom were hospitalized with broken bones and cuts. Organizers said 520 demonstrators were hurt, 20 of them seriously. More than 2,000 protesters were still in Rostock on Monday, police said. The situation around Heiligendamm was calm Monday ahead of the three-day meeting starting Wednesday, when German Chancellor Angela Merkel will host the leaders of Britain, France, Japan, Italy, Russia, Canada and the U.S. for discussions on issues including global warming, aid to Africa and the world economy. President Bush left Monday for the summit, with his first stop in Prague, in the Czech Republic. Germany is determined to avoid a repeat of the debilitating violence that has marred previous G-8 summits, notably in Genoa, Italy, in 2001, where one protester was killed. It has reinforced its border controls ahead of the summit. Anti-globalization activists have complained that security surrounding the three-day summit is excessive. Germany's Constitutional Court said an alliance of activist groups had challenged a lower court's ban on protests outside of Heiligendamm. That ban came into force last week, when public access to Heiligendamm was shut off. Authorities had said earlier that starting Wednesday, the demonstration ban will be expanded to about 3 miles beyond a 7-mile fence that was built around Heiligendamm. It was not clear when the court would rule on the case. In a separate decision, an administrative court in the town of Greifswald ruled that only 50 protesters will be allowed to hold a rally directly outside Rostock's airport, where Bush and other leaders are scheduled to arrive. Activists had asked permission for a 1,500-member demonstration at the airport, but the court rejected their claim for security reasons. The approved protest will be restricted to a shoulder of a road across from the airport entrance. A bigger group will be allowed to protest at a nearby parking area for buses. Bush is scheduled to arrive Tuesday evening. The government said 85 people had been refused entry to Germany ahead of the summit and that 15-20 percent of those who were detained temporarily Saturday in Rostock had been foreign nationals. Merkel on Sunday deplored the "terrible, dreadful pictures" of protesters clashing with police. "Violence is no way to solve things and shows that the police methods are necessary," she said. Merkel defended security measures such as pre-summit raids on the offices of protest groups, some of whom have vowed to try to disrupt the summit by blocking roads leading to Heiligendamm. She has also said, however, that peaceful protesters have every right to make their point. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7823082.html Group claims to have killed U.S. soldiers captured in Iraq ambush & World News Group claims to have killed U.S. soldiers captured in Iraq ambush Jun 4, 2007 at 7:34 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 10:02 AM PDT CAIRO, Egypt (AP) - Al-Qaida linked insurgents killed three American soldiers after capturing them last month in Iraq, according to a militant video released Monday that claimed to show footage of the ambush. The video offered no proof for its claims. The clip, which was made available to The Associated Press by the Washington-based SITE Institute, showed confused and jerky night battle scenes, and later offered close-ups of two identification cards. It did not show the soldiers. "The Americans sent 4,000 soldiers looking for them," said an unidentified voice on the video, which featured the logo of the media production house of the Islamic State of Iraq. "They were alive and then dead." The body of one of the soldiers was found in Iraq's Euphrates River, but the other two remain missing. Family friends of the missing men said the U.S. military briefed relatives about the video over the weekend. The video offered no proof for its claims that the soldiers had been killed and buried. The voiceover blamed their deaths on "the American Army and their leaders, who do not care for the feelings of the soldiers' mothers." "And as you refused to deliver the bodies of our killed people, we will not deliver the bodies of your dead, and their end will be beneath the ground, Allah willing," the voice said. A body found May 23 in the Euphrates River was identified by the U.S. military as Pfc. Joseph Anzack Jr., 20, of Torrance, Calif. The missing soldiers have been identified as Spc. Alex R. Jimenez, 25, of Lawrence, Mass., and of Pvt. Byron W. Fouty, 19, of Waterford, Mich. The three vanished after their combat team was ambushed May 12 about 20 miles outside Baghdad. Five others, including an Iraqi, were killed in the ambush, subsequently claimed by al-Qaida. The attack triggered a massive search in the area south of Baghdad known as the "triangle of death" for the rampant insurgent activity there. Gordon Dibler, Fouty's stepfather, said he was holding out hope for the soldiers' safe return: "We're praying, and so far, we don't know for certain that they aren't alive." At the end of the 10-minute 41-second video, the identification cards of the two missing soldiers were shown, with the headline: "Bush is the reason of the loss of your POWs" written on the screen above the cards. SITE, an organization that monitors terrorist groups, did not say how it obtained the video. A card belonging to Anzack was not shown. Along with the identification cards, the footage also showed credit cards, American and Iraqi money and other personal items that the militants called "booty." There was no immediate word from U.S. officials about the Islamic State of Iraq claim. The video also showed footage, apparently taken before the ambush, of three masked men standing around a stand displaying a sketch of the area, mapping out the attack plan. One of the three men, who were all dressed in black, talked to the camera and pointed to the sketch. Another stood by him carrying a gun. "I have urged you to bring me American prisoners," said the man, whose name was not given but was identified as one of the militant group's leaders. A Islamic Web site that commonly posts videos from militant groups including the Islamic State of Iraq said in a banner headline that it would show the video within hours, but the video has not yet appeared. After the soldiers disappeared, the Islamic State of Iraq issued Web statements warning the Americans to call off the hunt "if you want their safety." arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7814317.html 14 U.S. troops killed in Iraq, including soldier killed by suicide bomber & World News 14 U.S. troops killed in Iraq, including soldier killed by suicide bomber A Iraqi young man carries ceiling fans in front destroyed buildings after a mini bus bomb exploded in Baghdad on June 3, 2007. Jun 3, 2007 at 12:37 PM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 12:37 PM PDT BAGHDAD (AP) - Fourteen American soldiers were killed in three deadly days in Iraq, the U.S. military said Sunday, including four in a single roadside bombing and one who was struck by a suicide bomber while on a foot patrol southwest of the capital. The blast that killed the four soldiers occurred Sunday as the troops were conducting a cordon and search operation northwest of the Iraqi capital, according to a statement. Two other soldiers from Multi-National Division - Baghdad were killed and five were wounded along with an Iraqi interpreter in two separate roadside bombings on Sunday, the military said. One soldier was killed Friday after the patrol approached two suspicious men for questioning near a mosque, and one of the suspects blew himself up, according to a statement. The military did not provide more details. Seven other troops were killed in a series of attacks across Iraq on Saturday. The deaths raised to at least 3,493 members of the U.S. military who have died since the war started in March 2003, according to an Associated Press count. The latest round of bloodshed came as private talks were reported between the radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr's Mahdi Army militia and Iraqi government officials to win the release of five Britons kidnapped last Tuesday from Baghdad's Finance Ministry, an abduction believed carried out by the Shiite militia. Recent American and Iraqi military operations in east Baghdad are believed aimed at finding and freeing those hostages. London's Sunday Times, quoting an unidentified senior Iraqi government official, said al-Sadr's representatives were demanding an end to assassination attempts against militia leaders, an end to British army patrols in the southern Shiite city of Basra, and the release of nine Mahdi officials from British and U.S. custody. Al-Sadr's office denies involvement in the kidnappings - of four security guards and a computer consultant. But the Times reported an al-Sadr official visited Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki to tell him the men were "safe and sound" but would not be free until the demands were met. Al-Maliki's office on Sunday denied a meeting took place. In the southern city of Diwaniyah, as U.S. jets roared overhead, Mahdi Army militiamen battled with Iraqi troops and local police searching for two militia leaders. At least three people were killed and 24 wounded, official Iraqi sources reported. Maj. Gen. Othman Ali, commander of the Iraq army's 8th Division, said his forces captured one of the men, but he escaped when fellow militiamen came to his aid. The fighting on the east side of the city, 80 miles south of Baghdad, took place with support from U.S. jet fighters and helicopter gunships skimming over Diwaniyah's rooftops, police said. Ali said his forces raided two locations in "fierce" fighting that lasted three hours. They didn't find their target suspects, but did find weapons caches, he said. Police and medical sources said 20 wounded Iraqis, including two policemen, were brought to the local hospital from Sunday morning's fighting. The clashes erupted anew around 1:30 p.m, and one soldier and two other people were killed, and three civilians wounded, an army officer said on condition of anonymity, since he was not authorized to speak with the media. It could not immediately be determined how many of the reported casualties may have been Mahdi Army militiamen. The U.S. military had no immediate report on the action. The Mahdi Army, under the stridently anti-American al-Sadr, has emerged as one of the strongest autonomous forces in U.S.-occupied Iraq, and has been implicated in the wave of sectarian killings - of Sunni Muslims by Shiites and Shiites by Sunni groups - that has bloodied Iraq. American helicopter gunships also attacked targets in Mahdi Army-dominated Shiite east Baghdad, killing four suspected militants, the U.S. military reported, as the radical Shiite militia faced growing pressure to bow to central government authority. The U.S. command said an Apache helicopter team was alerted to men setting up multiple rocket firing positions aimed at the Green Zone, home to the U.S. Embassy and Iraqi government offices. Four men were killed and one vehicle and 10 rockets destroyed by the Apache fire, the military said, and six other suspects were captured by ground forces of the 82nd Airborne Division. A recent increase in mortar and rocket attacks on the U.S.-controlled area has raised concern, especially since they are occurring during the U.S.-led crackdown in Baghdad. American and Iraqi forces launched "Operation Black Eagle" about two months ago in Diwaniyah, in search of five wanted senior Mahdi Army figures. About 180 suspected members were rounded up, but none of the five, said Ali. The two sides had agreed on a truce two weeks ago, an accord that broke down with this weekend's clashes. In another of Iraq's unending terror bombings, meanwhile, a car parked near a police station and an open-air market exploded Sunday in Balad Ruz, northeast of Baghdad, killing nine civilians and one policeman and wounding 25 other people, police said. In other violence Sunday: - Gunmen at a fake checkpoint in Baqouba, 35 miles north of Baghdad, killed two passengers and wounded eight when they opened fire on minibuses that sought to flee from the highway trap. - Police found eight bodies in an industrial area of the western city of Fallujah. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7814712.html China rejects FDA warning on toothpaste & World News China rejects FDA warning on toothpaste Jun 3, 2007 at 2:22 PM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 2:22 PM PDT BEIJING (AP) - China rejected a warning issued by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration urging consumers to avoid using Chinese toothpaste because it may contain a poisonous chemical used in antifreeze. Calling the FDA warning ''unscientific, irresponsible and contradictory,'' China's General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said in a statement posted on its Web site late Saturday that low levels of the chemical have been deemed safe for consumption. The FDA increased its scrutiny of toothpaste made in China because of reports that the products may contain diethylene glycol, a thickening agent used as a low-cost - but frequently deadly - substitute for glycerin, a sweetener commonly used in drugs. The agency was not aware of any poisoning but found toothpaste with the chemical in a shipment at the U.S. border and at two bargain retail stores, a Dollar Plus in Miami and a Todo A Peso in Puerto Rico. China's main food safety regulator said in its statement that the ingredients of toothpaste exported to the U.S. is offered to the FDA, showing the amount of diethylene glycol. Also, the toothpaste's labeling has already been registered with the FDA, allowing it to be sold in the U.S, the statement said. The General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said experts from the Health Ministry had deemed diethylene glycol a ''low-level'' poison that does not accumulate in the body and found no evidence the substance caused cancer or deformities. It also said European Union standards allow for a certain amount of the chemical and cited a 2000 Chinese study that found toothpaste containing less than 15.6 percent diethylene glycol was not harmful. The Chinese toothpaste the FDA is concerned about contains between 3 percent to 4 percent of the drug, according to the FDA. ''Therefore the warning issued by the FDA ... is unscientific, irresponsible and contradictory,'' the agency said. The agency ''requests the U.S. clarify the facts in a scientific manner and properly handle the issue.'' The FDA alert Friday said the agency found diethylene glycol, or DEG, in three products manufactured by Goldcredit International Trading in China: Cooldent Fluoride, Cooldent Spearmint and Cooldent ICE. The agency also found the chemical in one product manufactured by Suzhou City Jinmao Daily Chemical Co. Analysis of that product, Shir Fresh Mint Fluoride Paste, found it contained about 1 percent DEG. Phones at both companies rang unanswered Sunday. Companies that make brands previously found with DEG will have to prove the toothpaste is free of the chemical before it's allowed into the U.S., the FDA said. Meanwhile, all other brands of Chinese-made toothpaste will be stopped for testing, something the FDA has been doing since May 23. A slew of Chinese exports have recently been banned or turned away by U.S. inspectors including, wheat gluten tainted with the chemical melamine that has been blamed for dog and cat deaths in North America, monkfish that turned out to be toxic pufferfish, drug-laced frozen eel, and juice made with unsafe color additives. DEG was blamed for the deaths of 51 people in Panama after they took tainted cold medicine. China has admitted it was the source of the deadly chemical but insists it was originally labeled as for industrial use only. Officials in Panama and several other Latin American countries have removed tens of thousands of tubes of Chinese-made toothpaste from stores amid concerns that they contain DEG. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7814197.html Putin: U.S. missile shield will force Moscow to train weapons on Europe & World News Putin: U.S. missile shield will force Moscow to train weapons on Europe Jun 3, 2007 at 12:06 PM PDT Jun 3, 2007 at 12:06 PM PDT ROME (AP) - Russian President Vladimir Putin warned that U.S. plans to build a missile defense system in Eastern Europe would force Moscow to target its weapons against Europe. The threat, in an interview published Sunday in Italy's Corriere della Sera and other foreign media, marked one of Putin's most strident statements to date against the U.S. plans and came just days before he is to join President Bush and other leaders at a Group of Eight summit in Germany. In the interview, Putin was asked whether the proposed missile defense shield would compel Moscow to direct its own missiles at locations and U.S. military sites in Europe, as during the Cold War. "If the American nuclear potential grows in European territory, we have to give ourselves new targets in Europe," Putin said, according to Corriere. "It is up to our military to define these targets, in addition to defining the choice between ballistic and cruise missiles." Russia has not overtly targeted Europe since agreeing after the fall of the Soviet Union not to direct missiles against specific countries, according to Pavel Felgenhauer, an independent military analyst based in Moscow. He added however, that that was simple technical matter, since a missile can be given a target within minutes. Previously, some Russian military officials have said Moscow could aim Russian weapons at Europe-based missile systems. Czech Prime Minister Mirek Topolanek accused Russia on Sunday of misleading the public about the planned missile defense bases in the Czech Republic and Poland to hide Russia's internal problems. "Russia needs an outside enemy to hide problems at home," Topolanek said. The White House had no comment Sunday on Putin's new warning, referring instead to the comments of National Security Adviser Stephen Hadley, who was questioned Friday about the missile defense shield in advance of the G-8 summit. "Of course the deployment that we're talking about in Europe is not about Russia at all," Hadley said. "It's not aimed at Russia. ... It's a very limited capability about other states, like Iran, who are developing ballistic missiles and potentially the weapons of mass destruction that those missiles could deliver." The Polish president insisted the missile shield was purely "to prevent attacks, neutralize their effects." "But I don't wonder at Russian present tactics because the issue is whether the Russian state .... will regain influence or not," Poland's President Lech Kaczynski told Polish reporters in Rome. The United States made a formal request in January to place a radar base in a military area southwest of Prague, Czech Republic, and 10 interceptor missiles in neighboring Poland as part of plans for a missile defense shield that Washington says would protect against a potential threat from Iran. The U.S. plans have brought a strong reaction from Russia, which accuses the United States of threatening Russian territory and of trying to start a new arms race. Putin was interviewed Friday at his dacha by journalists from each of the G-8 countries, Corriere said. The three-day summit, Wednesday to Friday at the Baltic Sea resort of Heiligendamm, will bring together leaders of the United States, Britain, Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Russia, and Japan. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7822937.html Drug dealer turned informant was key to undoing of JFK plot & World News Drug dealer turned informant was key to undoing of JFK plot Fuel tanks are seen at JFK International Airport in New York Sunday, June 3, 2007. Jun 4, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 7:26 AM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - The question was simple: "Would you like to die as a martyr?" The informant unhesitatingly replied yes - there was no greater way to die in Islam. The right answer put him in the midst of a suspected terrorist plot conceived as more devastating than the 9/11 attacks. He was soon making surveillance trips around John F. Kennedy International Airport - the "chicken farm," as the planners dubbed their target - and visiting the Trinidad compound of a radical Muslim group. The insider, a twice-convicted drug dealer who agreed to help in exchange for a lighter sentence, was a government informant whose surreptitious work undermined a plot to destroy the Queens airport by exploding a jet fuel pipeline. His help once again demonstrated the growing importance of informants in the war on terrorism, particularly as smaller radical groups become more aggressive. "In most cases, you can't get from A to B without an informant," said Tom Corrigan, a former member of the FBI-NYPD Joint Terrorist Task Force. "Most times when an informant tells you what is going on, speculation becomes reality." According to court papers and investigators, the informant began working for the government in 2004, after his second drug-trafficking conviction in New York, and he quickly proved to be a credible source. He was sent to meet with the JFK plot's alleged mastermind Russell Defreitas in 2006 and was introduced by an unidentified third party. Defreitas quickly accepted the informant as legitimate, saying he was sure they knew each other through a Brooklyn mosque. Defreitas, according to a federal complaint, believed the informant "had been sent by Allah to be the one" to pull off the bombing. Four Muslim men are accused of plotting to use explosives to destroy a jet fuel pipeline that runs through populous residential neighborhoods to the airport, which they allegedly believed would kill thousands of people and trigger an economic catastrophe. In an indictment, one of them is quoted as saying the bombing would "cause greater destruction than in the Sept. 11 attacks." Although the plotters put a great deal of time and travel into their plan, they never managed to obtain any explosives before authorities arrested Defreitas and foiled the JFK scheme. Experts said the plot could have resulted in damage and fires, but nothing on the scale that the defendants had envisioned. The men accused in the JFK plot didn't turn to Middle Eastern extremists for support to target the airport. Instead, investigators say the informant and defendants Kareem Ibrahim and Defreitas visited a compound belonging to the Jamaat al Muslimeen, a radical Muslim group based in Trinidad off Venezuela's coast. When Defreitas discussed his radical "brothers" with the informant, he made it clear they were not Arabs, but from Trinidad and Guyana. The complaint also made clear how deeply the informant had infiltrated the small band of would-be terrorists. While Defreitas, a retired JFK airport cargo worker, made four reconnaissance missions to the airport with the informant, federal authorities recorded each one on audio and video. Defreitas, 63, who immigrated to the U.S. more than 30 years ago from Guyana, was in custody Sunday pending a bail hearing, was arrested two days earlier in Brooklyn. Ibrahim and another suspect, Abdul Kadir, were in custody in Trinidad awaiting extradition hearings. Officials identified Kadir as a former mayor of a Guyanese town and a member of the country's Parliament. Authorities in Trinidad were still seeking a fourth suspect, Abdel Nur. Authorities said the JFK case and last month's arrest of six men suspected of plotting to attack soldiers at Fort Dix, N.J., illustrated the need for inside information. "These have been two significant cases back-to-back where informants were used," Corrigan said. "These terrorists are in our own backyard. They may have to reach out to people they don't necessarily trust, but they need - for guns, explosives, whatever." Last year, informants played a major role in two other terror cases. In June 2006, an informant posing as an al-Qaida operative helped bring down a plot to blow up the Sears Tower. Five of the seven men arrested in that alleged terrorist group were U.S. citizens. In May 2006, an NYPD informant's testimony led to the conviction of a man plotting to blow up the busy Herald Square subway station in midtown Manhattan. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national & World News Top National & World News Story Grand jury indicts Rep. Jefferson in bribery investigation Rep. William Jefferson, D-La., was indicted Monday on federal charges of racketeering, soliciting bribes and money-laundering in a long-running bribery investigation into business deals he tried to broker in Africa. Group claims to have killed U.S. soldiers captured in Iraq ambush Al-Qaida linked insurgents killed three American soldiers after capturing them last month in Iraq, according to a militant video released Monday that claimed to show footage of the ambush. Hideaways offer senators a quiet escape, and an occasional place for mischief When Sen. Patrick Leahy wants privacy, he heads down one of the Capitol's marbled hallways and through a locked door next to a hulking, white marble statue. Then, through another locked door, into a hideaway secure from the bustle outside. National & World News Headlines Credit 'piggybacking' roiling lending industry Drug dealer turned informant was key to undoing of JFK plot Anti-globalization protesters clash with police ahead of G-8 summit China rejects FDA warning on toothpaste 14 U.S. troops killed in Iraq, including soldier killed by suicide bomber Putin: U.S. missile shield will force Moscow to train weapons on Europe Democratic candidates square off over war on terror, Iraq Immigration bill would push some high school grads toward legalization Calif. man shatters world record for hot dog eating Tuberculosis patient settles in for 2-month hospital stay in Denver Authorities charge 4 in alleged NYC terror plot Masked G-8 protesters, police clash ahead of summit in Germany 60 dead, including Taliban, after boat sinks in southern Afghan province Tropical Storm Barry weakens as it nears Tampa Kidney donation reality show revealed as a hoax Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Researchers unearth 2,100 year-old melon in Japan Quarantined TB patient: 'I hope they forgive me' Jack Kevorkian released from prison after 8 years 4-year-old boy struck, killed by police cruiser Bush White House following new path to secrecy Tropical storm Barry forms in the Gulf Kidnapped reporter says in videotape that he's been treated well Spain makes court claim over sunken colonial-era treasure Lugovoi alleges British involvement in poisoning death of ex-KGB agent arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7822957.html Credit 'piggybacking' roiling lending industry & World News Credit 'piggybacking' roiling lending industry Alipio Estruch is shown at his home in Weston, Fla., Thursday, May 31, 2007. Jun 4, 2007 at 7:28 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 9:18 AM PDT Only a low credit score stood between Alipio Estruch and a mortgage to buy a $449,000 Spanish-style house in Weston, Fla., a few miles west of Fort Lauderdale. Instead of spending several years repairing his credit rating, which he said was marred by two forgotten cell phone bills and identity theft, the 37-year-old real estate agent paid $1,800 to an Internet-based company to bump up his score almost overnight. The result was a happy ending for Estruch, but the growing practice is sending shivers through the mortgage industry. Federal regulators are also reviewing the practice. And after being contacted by The Associated Press for this story, Fair Isaac Corp., the developer of the widely used FICO score, said it will change its credit scoring system beginning later this year in a way it contends will end this little-known but potentially high-impact mortgage loan loophole. Instantcreditbuilders.com, or ICB, helped Estruch boost his score by arranging for him to be added as an authorized user on several credit cards of people with stellar credit who were paid to allow this coattailing. Parents also use this practice when they add their children to their credit cards to help them build solid credit. The pitch to those who are essentially renting their credit history for pay is seductive: You don't need to worry about users of this service receiving duplicate copies of your credit cards, account numbers or any of your personal information. It's essentially free money, they are told. Brian Kinney, 44, a retired Army officer in Glendale, Calif., pulls in more than $2,500 a month by lending out 19 credit card spots on two old Citibank cards with strong payment histories. Kinney, whose FICO score is above 800 on the scale of 300 to 850, quit his job working at a Farmers Insurance agency and uses the ICB income to tide him over until he starts his own insurance agency. Lenders are worried, however, that they're taking on greater default risks by unknowingly offering lower interest rates than they otherwise would to applicants who artificially boost their credit scores. Their trade group has complained to the Federal Trade Commission and is talking with the credit reporting bureaus in case the practice becomes more widespread. Estruch paid $1,800 in December for three credit card spots, and by January, his FICO score jumped from 550 to 715. In mid-March, he closed on his four-bedroom beige stucco house after obtaining a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage from a unit of American Home Mortgage Investment Corp. It carried a 7.5 percent interest rate and required no down payment. "Everything now is score driven. I had a great mortgage history, but I got hurt because of my credit score," said Estruch, who also works as a mortgage broker, had bought and sold two houses previously, and currently owns another home in New York. Estruch said he's current on his mortgage payments. Companies like Largo, Fla.-based ICB are sprouting on the Internet with little overhead and no-frills marketing. They post ads on community Web sites like Craigslist and have sponsored links on Google and Yahoo. Competitors of ICB have even reached out to mortgage brokers, lenders and real estate agents, flooding their e-mail with advertisements. Jason LaBossiere, who founded ICB a year and a half ago, said his company receives 100 to 150 new leads daily - a number that has been growing - and those inquiries lead to 10 to 20 new clients a week. ICB charges $900 for the first credit card account, with a discount for additional ones. The cardholder allowing the piggybacking on his or her credit history can receive $100 to $150 per slot, depending on the age and credit limit of each card. ICB pockets the rest. The effect on a credit score can vary depending on what else is in a client's report. But one borrowed credit card account can increase a score between 30 and 45 points, two between 60 and 90 points, and five between 150 and 205 points, according to ICB. That's because the computer program that calculates scores is essentially tricked into believing the credit renter has a better repayment history when it sees the added accounts, and that helps lift the credit score. Once the credit card company files an updated report to credit bureaus - leading to a higher FICO score - the credit renter is removed from the account of the person allowing the piggybacking. However, the credit card's payment history remains on the authorized user's credit report forever, and lenders have no way of knowing how the credit borrower is related to the cardholder. A higher credit score can save a consumer an enormous amount of money because it usually means a lower mortgage interest rate. It also can mean the difference between qualifying for a loan or not, as in Estruch's case. According to Fair Isaac, lenders would probably demand about a 9.8 percent interest rate on a $300,000, 30-year fixed mortgage for an applicant with a credit score between 500 and 579. That would translate into a $2,585 monthly payment for principal and interest. But a borrower with a score between 760 and 850 seeking the same loan would qualify for about a 6 percent rate that would cost just $1,796 a month for principal and interest. That savings of $789 each month would total $284,040 over 30 years. Kinney, the retired Army officer in California, said those borrowing his good credit history don't get his personal information, full credit card number or credit card expiration dates. Any sensitive data is handled through ICB, and Kinney adds the users himself by calling his credit card company. ICB also destroys any duplicate cards that are issued to the credit renter, according to its contract. Instead of being worried about risks he may be assuming, Kinney said borrowers are the ones vulnerable to scammers posing as do-gooders. Those seeking a credit hike give the cardholder their names and Social Security numbers, which, in the wrong hands, could lead to identity theft. Kinney said he also receives credit card offers in the mail for the credit borrowers on his accounts, opening up another possibility for fraud, but he throws them away. "I know the whole thing sounds kind of odd and not very legitimate, but it is for now," Kinney said. "I don't know how long before someone will decide it's illegal. But I'm not counting on this for the long-term." Ginny Ferguson, a mortgage broker in Pleasanton, Calif., and a credit expert for the National Association of Mortgage Brokers, considers the practice mortgage fraud, and the trade organization is about to release a policy statement against it. "These companies are encouraging consumers to commit fraud. On a standard home loan, there's a clause that says the consumer is not omitting pertinent facts that could impact his or her ability to repay the loan," Ferguson said. ICB's LaBossiere said he sees his business as a second chance for the consumer who has had little financial education to make good decisions. "People who are our clients are spending an incredible amount of money to get their finances back in order," he said. "They've learned through a school of pain that it's such an important aspect of regaining control of their lives again." So far, federal authorities have yet to make a ruling on the practice. "What I've gathered from attorneys here is that it appears to be legal" technically, said FTC spokesman Frank Dorman. "However, the agency is not saying that it is legal." Lenders, who depend on credit scores to assess a person's ability to pay back a loan, are closely watching the practice's growth. It also comes at a time when the industry is reeling from the a soaring default rate on subprime mortgages, home loans for people with bad credit. As a result, they've tightened lending standards, but the credit-renting practice threatens to undermine their efforts to reduce exposure to risky borrowers. Ninety percent of the largest U.S. banks base their loan decisions on FICO scores, which currently include authorized user accounts. However, after discussions with lenders and industry officials, Fair Isaac said it intends to announce this week that all future versions of its FICO score methodology will no longer consider authorized user accounts, said Tom Quinn, Fair Isaac's vice president of scoring solutions. The next version is slated to roll out in September to one of the three main credit reporting agencies - Equifax Inc., Experian Information Solutions Inc. or TransUnion LLC - with the other two agencies receiving the new version some time in 2008. The change won't be a quick-fix for lenders trying to weed out credit renters. Corey Carlisle, senior director of government affairs for the Mortgage Bankers Association, said it takes time for lenders to transition from one scoring system to another. "All lenders have their own guidelines and parameters on how to use and incorporate the FICO score. It would take time to understand what's in a new credit score," Carlisle said. Quinn also noted that some lenders generate their own scores using authorized user accounts in their calculations, so the practice may not be easily negated. "It's an industrywide issue and there are other scores out there," he said. This is a phenomenon that impacts more than just FICO scores." Other consumers besides credit renters stand to lose with the change, namely those for whom authorized user accounts were designed: college students on their parents' cards and spouses with little to no credit of their own. But there's no way to distinguish these from the latest crop of strangers trying to augment their scores. Lenders who want to find out more information about others on credit card accounts are hindered by the Fair Credit Reporting Act and privacy laws. "As with any decision, there's a trade-off," Quinn said. "The many honest consumers who learn good credit skills with the help from a family member, that feature will be removed. But the challenge for us is maintaining the integrity of the FICO score." arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/national/7823012.html Hideaways offer senators a quiet escape, and an occasional place for mischief & World News Hideaways offer senators a quiet escape, and an occasional place for mischief Staffers and Capitol Hill Police stand in and around Sen. Edward Kennedy's hideaway office on Capitol Hill in Washington. Jun 4, 2007 at 7:32 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 9:19 AM PDT WASHINGTON (AP) - When Sen. Patrick Leahy wants privacy, he heads down one of the Capitol's marbled hallways and through a locked door next to a hulking, white marble statue. Then, through another locked door, into a hideaway secure from the bustle outside. Many of the 100 senators have these coveted, hard-to-find nooks scattered around the Capitol, a cherished perk on top of their official suites in the nearby Senate buildings where the staff works and constituents drop in. Hideaways have been popular places for legislative dealmaking - even a little monkey business, too. One senator drew on his roots as a pilot and designed his hideaway space as a cockpit, where he donned a telephone headset to communicate with ground control - his staff across the street. Leahy, the Senate Judiciary Committee chairman, recently met in his hideaway with Attorney General Alberto Gonzales to discuss the firings of U.S. attorneys and FBI abuses of the Patriot Act. Painted in soft yellow with white trim, the narrow, high-ceilinged room on the first floor has one of the Capitol's most desired views - of the National Mall and Washington Monument. There's a desk and computer, a couch, a working fireplace flanked by built-in bookcases and a bathroom - considered a perk for a hideaway. Photos of "the most beautiful grandchildren you've ever seen" - Leahy has four - and of the Democrat's 300-acre property in Vermont adorn the walls, along with two folded U.S. flags mounted in their cases. Down a red hallway just off the Rotunda on the second floor is the hideaway that belongs to Sen. Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. It serves as an overflow room, and is used for staff and constituent meetings that are too large for the stately suite McConnell inherited when he became Republican leader. "It's not very pretty but it's useful," spokesman Don Stewart said. The windowless room has a conference table and six chairs, a couch, two armchairs and a non-working fireplace with a large mirror above it. There's a TV, telephones, a mini fridge and a bathroom. Photos of a young McConnell decorate the walls. Sam Brownback's hideaway is in the basement. The Kansas Republican and presidential aspirant met there with activists in 2005 as Congress debated the case of Terry Schiavo, the brain-damaged Florida woman whose feeding tube was removed. Other senators dwelling in the basement are Republicans Jon Kyl of Arizona and James Inhofe of Oklahoma. Inhofe has a fish-shaped "Jesus" magnet on the door. Some House leaders and committee chairmen have hideaways, too. Rep. Rahm Emanuel, D-Ill., a member of the Democratic leadership, has a beige-colored, first-floor hideaway with a wood-burning fireplace, a Mall view and photos of his wife and three children. Hideaway "spaces were highly coveted by the powerful, and particularly by the playful," Bobby Baker, an aide to Sen. Lyndon B. Johnson, wrote in his book, "Wheeling and Dealing: Confessions of a Capitol Hill Operator." Johnson served in the Senate from 1949 until he was sworn in as vice president in 1961. Johnson - and others - used their hideaways for more than legislative affairs, said another former LBJ aide. "He frequently turned his hideaway into a love nest," Robert Parker said in his memoir, "Capitol Hill in Black and White." "He would invite a woman there at the end of the day to 'take dictation."' Parker, who eventually became the Senate Dining Room's head waiter, had keys to all the hideaways in use at the time. He would check the "escape rooms" before lunch to make sure they were stocked with wine and cocktail glasses, ice, fresh flowers and whatever else he thought senators wanted or needed. Parker said senators' wives often asked him where their husband's hideaways were. He said he would smile politely and feign ignorance. But "we both knew her husband was using his hideaway for more than lunch. So were a lot of other senators." By definition, hideaways are hard to find. Many are down closed-off hallways or behind unmarked, nondescript doors marked only with an "S" or an "H," for Senate or House, and a number. "There's no sign on the door saying, 'This is senator so-and-so's hideaway,"' said Senate historian Betty Koed. So sensitive are senators about their hideaways that nearly 20 either declined requests to visit them or their offices did not respond. Capitol Police officers help keep reporters and tourists away, too. "You know that a specific room is a senator's hideaway, because you see him going in there, but you don't tell anybody that, particularly the press," Leonard Ballard, a former Capitol Police inspector, said in a 1983 oral history interview. He wouldn't point a senator to another's hideaway, either. "The senator will say, 'Well, if he'll show somebody that one, he'll show mine,"' Ballard said. "So you just don't. That's his little kingdom." Many hideaways are cramped and windowless - with room enough for the basic desk and chair. Some are downright palatial by comparison, with working fireplaces and grand views of the Mall and its monuments. With a hideaway, senators can hold meetings or talk on the phone in absolute privacy. They can save the time they'd spend going between the Capitol and their Senate offices for votes. They can even catch a nap on a late night. "The more senior the senator, the finer the room," Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., explained in her novel "Born to Run," in which the main character is like her, a Democratic senator from California. Boxer, a third-term senator, has a hideaway, but her office declined to show it to The Associated Press. Johnson had a Murphy bed and a kitchen with a bar, a refrigerator and a stove hidden behind panels in his suite of hideaways, according to Parker. Johnson ultimately had snatched so many hideaways for himself on two floors that his spread became known as "Johnson's Ranch East." Louisiana Sen. Allan Ellender served samples of his Creole cooking at luncheons in his third-floor hideaway. Five U.S. presidents partook, including LBJ, who one day followed his nose and dropped in, uninvited, for some of the Democrat's famous shrimp gumbo. Vice President Harry S. Truman had just arrived at House Speaker Sam Rayburn's hideaway on April 12, 1945, for a late-afternoon swig of bourbon when he got a message to call the White House. Franklin D. Roosevelt was dead. Rayburn's hideaway was known as the "Board of Education" because he and his colleagues would meet there over drinks at the end of the day to swap stories and plot strategy. New Hampshire's Gordon Humphrey, the former pilot, would retreat to his hideaway and pretend he was back in the cockpit. Staff called it the "3C" center - military speak for command, control and communications. Daniel Webster's ghost is said to have haunted his former hideaway, once occupied by Leahy. Webster had stored his wine collection in the vaulted, third-floor room. Leahy subsequently renamed the office after the Massachusetts senator and invited his ghost to the dedication. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Man, woman dead in Kent murder-suicide
