http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BILLY_GRAHAM_LIBRARY?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 3:27 AM EDT Dedication Set for Billy Graham Library Dedication Set for Billy Graham Library N.C. (AP) -- Evangelist Billy Graham ended his crusades two years ago. But a new $27 million museum will carry on his work after the frail 88-year-old is gone. On Thursday, former Presidents Carter, Clinton and George H.W. Bush were expected to be among 1,500 well-wishers at the private dedication of the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte. The 40,000-square-foot complex, built near the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, traces the preacher's rise from farm boy to the most widely heard minister of all time. Over his long career he preached the Gospel in person to more than 210 million people. "Even after my father is in heaven, whenever that day will be, it will be an opportunity to extend his ministry for several generations," said the Rev. Franklin Graham, Billy Graham's son and successor, who serves as chief executive of the evangelistic association. Billy Graham suffers from fluid on the brain, prostate cancer and Parkinson's disease, and is largely confined to his home in Montreat. His wife Ruth, 86, has degenerative osteoarthritis of the back and neck and is bedridden at their home. Franklin Graham said his father is strong enough to appear at the dedication, but "he's preoccupied right now with my mother. She is very weak." "She's aware of what's happening. Her mind is sharp," Franklin Graham told we're just concerned that she won't be around with us much longer." Billy Graham, who has met every president since Harry S. Truman, initially opposed plans for the presidential-style library, his son said. But he agreed when Franklin Graham explained that it was not meant as a monument to him. "We presented it to him that this is a ministry," Franklin Graham said. "It's about the message you preached and what you dedicated your life to." The museum, which is set to open Tuesday, will be free to the public. The dairy farm where Billy Graham grew up is just a few miles from the site of the library and the building design reflects his roots. The entrance looks like a barn and has a 40-foot glass cross for a front door. Hay bales and a 1936 farm truck decorate the lobby, along with an animatronic cow named Bessie that talks about Billy Graham as a young boy. Critics dubbed the animal the "Golden Calf," saying it wasn't appropriate for honoring the evangelist. But Franklin Graham said it was critical to include displays appealing to kids. The exhibits highlight Billy Graham's close ties to U.S. presidents, his pioneering use of radio, TV and film for evangelism and his role as America's pastor - comforting the nation during crises, most recently after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. The evangelist's childhood home was also moved to the site and restored. Billy Graham's children have been divided over where their parents should be buried - at the library or at The Cove, a Bible training center near the Grahams' mountainside home at Montreat. Franklin Graham believes his parents have decided the location, but "haven't made that public yet." Billy Graham Evangelistic Association:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DELTA_WHALES?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 4:24 AM EDT Calif. Whales Provide New Information FRANCISCO (AP) -- Scientists observing the wayward wanderings of two humpback whales in a California river have more to celebrate than their return to the Pacific Ocean - the duo provided an unexpected opportunity to study the endangered species. The information scientists gathered includes sound recordings, logs of their behavior and tissue samples from both the mother and calf, which will be analyzed to determine whether they come from a pod of whales that travel between Mexico and California. "All those things are very hard to get. So what we are doing is filling up the knowledge bank on humpback whales in the wild," said Jim Oswald, a spokesman for the nonprofit Marine Mammal Center, a private scientific and rescue organization. The experience also could prove helpful in approaching other stranded whales, he said. After spending more than two weeks trying to coax the whales back to sea with mixed results, officials were ready Wednesday to declare Operation Humpback a success. Since the previously conspicuous whales had not been seen for a full day, officials assumed the duo found their way home, undoing a wrong turn that inspired a range of rescue attempts. The whales, believed to be a mother and calf, were last observed at sunset Tuesday swimming in San Francisco Bay about 10 miles north of the city. A convoy of boats that accompanied the whales across the bay to keep traffic at a distance stopped escorting them when it got dark. Officials think the whales slipped out of San Francisco Bay to the open sea late Tuesday night or early Wednesday morning, when no one was watching. To make sure the whales did not take another wrong turn, two government boats were launched Wednesday morning to look for them in the Pacific Ocean. Rescuers relied on reports from commercial vessels and Coast Guard patrols to determine if the humpbacks still were in the bay. Officials said they will never know why the humpbacks swam 90 miles inland. But their journey marks the first time the same humpbacks were studied in the wild for so long, according to Bernadette Fees, deputy director of the California Department of Fish and Game. It also was the first time that whales swimming free in the wild were successfully treated with antibiotics. The pair apparently were injured by a boat at some point, and officials said their wounds might have played a role in their becoming stranded in the fresh water of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. Based on the way their skin deteriorated while they were in the delta, marine scientists now have a clearer idea of how long whales can survive in fresh water, Gulland said. After the whales were spotted near Sacramento on May 13, officials spent days trying to goad them back to the ocean, playing recordings of other whales, surrounding them with boats, blasting them with fire hoses and banging metal pipes dangling beneath the water. Those involved in the rescue effort said they did not know if the methods hastened the whales' exit or hindered it. They tried to strike a balance between getting the whales going and not making the problem worse. "What we ultimately came away with is that many of the techniques had some effect, but none of them could make a whale go in a direction it did not want to go," said John Calambokidis, a scientist with the nonprofit Cascadia Research Collective. Officials speculated Wednesday that antibiotics given to the whales on Saturday to try to heal their wounds may have been a factor in their departure. The pair began their hasty retreat from the delta after receiving them. Biologists said the saltier water where the mother humpback whale and her calf had been swimming since leaving the delta helped reverse some of the health problems caused by long exposure to fresh water. Gulland said she would not be ready to celebrate until Sunday, when she could be more certain the humpbacks were safely on their way. Officials were unsure how much was spent on the rescue efforts, but they insisted the expenditures of time and money were justified, if not required under wildlife protection laws. They urged people who were captivated by the whales and followed their progress to transfer their energy to protecting marine habitats. Associated Press writer Lisa Leff in Vallejo contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MILITARY_PROTEST_HEARING?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 11:14 AM EDT Marine Vet Faces Hearing Over Protest Search the DOD Surplus Database GAO Report on Military Recruiting U.S.: China Lacks Power for Taiwan Fight AP: Marines Fail to Get Gear to Troops Bush Wants Geren to Be Army Secretary U.S. May Shift to Noncombat Role in Iraq Hearing Sought Over Linguists' Discharge Strategists Weigh Alternatives for Iraq Army Says Dragon Skin Armor Falls Short House Backs Ban on F-14 Parts for Iran Army Tries Incentives to Keep Officers CITY, Mo. (AP) -- An Iraq war veteran could lose his honorable discharge status after being photographed wearing fatigues at an anti-war protest. Marine Cpl. Adam Kokesh and other veterans marked the fourth anniversary of the war in Iraq in March by wearing their uniforms - with military insignia removed - and roaming around the nation's capital on a mock patrol. After Kokesh was identified in a photo cutline in The Washington Post, a superior officer sent him a letter saying he might have violated a rule prohibiting troops from wearing uniforms without authorization. Kokesh, a member of Iraq Veterans Against the War, responded with an obscenity. Now, a military panel has been scheduled to meet with Kokesh on Monday to decide whether his discharge status should be changed from "honorable" to "other than honorable." "This is clearly a case of selective prosecution and intimidation of veterans who speak out against the war," Kokesh said. "To suggest that while as a veteran you don't have freedom of speech is absurd." Kokesh is part of the Individual Ready Reserve, a segment of the reserves that consists mainly of those who have left active duty but still have time remaining on their eight-year military obligations. His attorney, Mike Lebowitz, said Kokesh's IRR status ends June 18. He said at least three other veterans have been investigated because of their involvement at demonstrations. Kokesh, 25, enlisted in the Marines while still attending high school in New Mexico. He was a reservist in an artillery unit, assigned to the November Battery, 5th Battalion, 14th Regiment of the 4th Division based out of Pico Rivera, Calif., near Los Angeles. Kokesh said he had reservations about Iraq even before the United States invaded, but wanted to go there to help rebuild schools and mosques after Saddam Hussein's regime was toppled. He even learned Arabic. He said he grew disillusioned with the war during his first tour, and now believes there is no way for the country to achieve the rule of law with a foreign military imposing martial law. He was supposed to go to Iraq a second time, but was demoted from sergeant to corporal and not allowed to return after it was learned that he brought a pistol back after his first tour in 2004. Kokesh argues that he was not representing the military at the protest in Washington, and he made that clear by removing his name tag and other military insignia from his uniform. Lebowitz said Kokesh technically is a civilian unless recalled to active duty and had the right to be disrespectful in his response to the officer. He called the proceedings against Kokesh highly unusual and said the military usually seeks to change a veteran's discharge status only if a crime has been committed. If his discharge status is changed, Kokesh said he could lose some health benefits and be forced to repay about $10,800 he received to obtain his undergraduate degree on the GI Bill. Kokesh said he holds no ill will toward the Marines. "I love the Marine Corps," he said. "I always have loved the Marine Corps, and that is why I'm particularly offended to see it being used for political ends." (This version CORRECTS date of protest to March sted April.)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SLAVERY_APOLOGY?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 11:14 AM EDT Alabama Gov. Signs Slavery Apology Ala. (AP) -- Gov. Bob Riley signed a resolution Thursday expressing "profound regret" for Alabama's role in slavery and apologizing for slavery's wrongs and lingering effects. "Slavery was evil and is a part of American history," the Republican governor said. "I believe all Alabamians are proud of the tremendous progress we have made and continue to make." Alabama is the fourth Southern state to pass a slavery apology, following votes by the legislatures in Maryland, Virginia and North Carolina. Alabama's Democrat-controlled Legislature approved the resolution last week. The Alabama resolution describes "centuries of brutal dehumanization and injustices" and says "the vestiges of slavery are ever before African-American citizens." It also says the House and Senate "express our profound regret for the State of Alabama's role in slavery and that we apologize for the wrongs inflicted by slavery and its after effects in the United States of America." "This proves Alabama is open for everyone and we are ready to improve race relations," said state Rep. Mary Moore, a Birmingham Democrat who sponsored the resolution. "The issue of slavery and its impact on the country had been kept in the closet until a few Southern states said, 'We want to take it out of the closet.'"
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SPAIN_TREASURE_SHIP?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 8:24 AM EDT Spain Files Claim Over Treasure Ship Fla. (AP) -- The Spanish government has filed claims in U.S. federal court over a shipwreck that a Florida firm found laden with colonial-era treasure, an attorney said Thursday. If the vessel was Spanish or was removed from that country's waters, any treasure would belong to Spain, said James Goold, an attorney representing the government. "It's a very well established principle under Spanish, U.S. and international law that a government such as the kingdom of Spain has not abandoned its sunken ships or sunken property, and that a company like Odyssey Marine Exploration may not conduct recovery operations without authorization by the government," he said. "The kingdom of Spain has not authorized any such operations by Odyssey, and by these legal actions it will see the return of any Spanish property Odyssey has recovered," Goold said of the claims filed Wednesday. Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. co-founder Greg Stemm said Thursday the company was working on a statement in response to Spain's claims. He has previously called Spain's legal threats "absurd" and said that Odyssey would notify all claimants once it conclusively determined the ship's identity. The company announced two weeks ago that it had discovered a shipwreck containing 500,000 gold and silver coins somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. The Tampa-based company said the site was outside any country's territorial waters but would not give the exact location or name of the ship. Odyssey has said that the ship was not in Spanish territorial waters and was not the HMS Sussex, a shipwreck that Odyssey recently got permission from the Spanish government to search for in the Strait of Gibraltar. But Spain has called the new discovery suspicious and said the booty may have come from a wrecked Spanish galleon. In Britain, the find generated press reports that Odyssey had salvaged the wreck of the long-sought British vessel Merchant Royal, which sank in bad weather off England in 1641. Odyssey has not confirmed or denied these reports. Spain is using the U.S. law firm Covington & Burling, which has represented Spain over shipwreck cases before, including the recovery of material from two ships, Juno and La Galga, in a 2000 court case. The Spanish government won the case at that time. Associated Press writers Jennifer Kay in Miami and Mar Roman in Madrid, Spain, contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CIVIL_UNIONS?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 11:57 AM EDT N.H. Governor Signs Civil Unions Law Australian Gay Bar Can Bar Heterosexuals Russian Police Detain Gay Activists Gays Flock to Fla. Panhandle for Holiday Romney: I'm Not Intolerant of Gays Hearing Sought Over Linguists' Discharge N.H. (AP) -- Gay couples in New Hampshire will be able to join in civil unions starting next year under a bill Gov. John Lynch signed into law Thursday. "We in New Hampshire have had a long and proud tradition taking the lead and opposing discrimination," Lynch said. "Today that tradition continues." Couples who enter civil unions will have the same rights, responsibilities and obligations as married couples. Same-sex unions from other states also would be recognized if they were legal in the state where they were performed. Legislators who gathered for the bill signing packed the governor's chambers and overflowed into an adjoining sitting room. They snapped photos and burst into applause as he signed it. "I've listened and I've heard all the arguments," said Lynch, a Democrat. "I do not believe that this bill threatens marriage. I believe that this is a matter of conscience and fairness." Episcopal Bishop V. Gene Robinson was among those attending. Although his consecration in 2003 as the first openly gay bishop in the Episcopal Church divided the worldwide Anglican union to which it belongs, Robinson and his longtime partner plan to take advantage of civil unions. "This is not a radical departure," Robinson said of the bill. "This is a real confirmation of what New Hampshire has always been about: the freedom of its own citizens and fairness for everyone." Robinson said he will not direct Episcopal priests in the state to bless same-sex unions, letting priests decide that individually. Such blessings have been another divisive issue for Episcopalians and the Anglican union. "That authority belongs to them and I would not in any way ask them not to do that. ... Just like in marriages, every priest will have the option to bless or not to bless," Robinson said. Massachusetts alone among the U.S. states allows gay marriage. Connecticut, Vermont, New Jersey, Maine, California and Washington allow either civil unions or domestic partnerships, and Oregon will join the list with New Hampshire in January. Hawaii extends certain spousal rights to same-sex couples and cohabiting heterosexual pairs.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION_ANALYSIS?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 10:37 AM EDT TB on a Plane? Sign of the Times (AP) -- SARS on a plane. Mumps on a plane. And now a rare and deadly form of tuberculosis, on at least two planes. Commercial air travel's potential for spreading infection continues to cause handwringing among public health officials, as news of a jet-setting man with a rare and deadly form of TB demonstrates. "We always think of planes as a vehicle for spreading disease," said Dr. Doug Hardy, an infectious disease specialist at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. In the latest case, a Georgia man with extensively drug-resistant TB ignored doctors' advice and took two trans-Atlantic flights, leading to the first U.S. government-ordered quarantine since 1963. The man, who officials did not identify, had been quarantined at Atlanta's Grady Memorial Hospital until Thursday morning, when he was transferred to Denver's National Jewish Hospital for treatment, Jewish Hospital spokesman William Allstetter said. He walked into the building and said he felt fine, Allstetter said. The hospital has treated two other patients with what appears to be the same strain of tuberculosis since 2000 and both improved enough to be released, according to Dr. Charles Daley, head of the infectious disease division at National Jewish. "I think we're more optimistic than what we have been hearing in reports that we will be able to control this infection," Daley told CNN Thursday morning. "We're aiming for cure. We know it's an uphill battle." The patient was not considered highly contagious, and there are no confirmed reports that his illness spread to other passengers. But the case illustrates ongoing concerns about the public health perils of plane travel, as well as the continuing problem of Typhoid Mary-like individuals who can almost be counted on to do the wrong thing. The man decided to proceed with a long-planned wedding trip despite being advised not to fly. "There's always going to be situations where there is a lack of understanding and appreciation of responsibility to the community in a situation like this," said Dr. John Ho, an infectious diseases specialist at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. The case also points out weaknesses in the system: The man was able to re-enter the United States, even though he said he had been warned by federal officials that his passport was being flagged and he was being placed on a no-fly list. CDC officials said they contacted the Department of Homeland Security to put the man on a no-fly list, but it doesn't appear he was added by the time he flew from Prague to Montreal and drove across the border from Canada. A Transportation Security Administration spokesman could not be reached for comment Wednesday. Challenges in coordinating with airlines and in communicating with the media also have emerged, said Glen Nowak, a spokesman for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "This clearly is going to have some relevance to our pandemic influenza preparedness," Nowak said. There have been several prominent disease-on-a-plane incidents in recent years. Perhaps best known is severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which erupted in Asia in 2003. Over three months, CDC workers delayed on the tarmac 12,000 airplanes carrying 3 million passengers arriving from SARS-affected countries, isolating people with SARS symptoms. Last year, CDC officials worked with airlines and state health departments to track two infected airline passengers who may have helped spread a mumps epidemic throughout the Midwest. And in March, a flight from Hong Kong was held at Newark International Airport for two hours because some on board reported feeling ill from a flu-like illness. They were released when it became clear they had seasonal flu, and not an avian variety. Medical experts say TB is significantly less contagious than flu, SARS and other maladies that have led to airport alerts. "This is not as easily transmissible as what we're concerned about with a flu pandemic," said Dr. William Schaffner, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at Vanderbilt University. A more contagious bug, carried by a stubborn or evasive passenger, could be much more problematic, experts said. It's remarkable how rarely serious contagions are on planes, Ho noted. "If you count the number of international flights there are on a daily basis, this is really a minuscule event" in terms of rate of occurrence, he said. "However, this underscores the interrelatedness of the global community. We can no longer escape things considered foreign" in this age of jet-travel, Ho said. Associated Press writer Malcolm Ritter in New York contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 11:49 AM EDT TB Patient in Denver for Treatment TB Patient Says He Wasn't Told Not to Leave U.S. Q and A: Tuberculosis Scare (AP) -- A tuberculosis patient with a rare and dangerous form of the disease arrived at Denver's National Jewish Medical and Research Center for treatment Thursday, walking under his own power and telling hospital officials he felt fine. The 31-year-old Georgia man, who is under the first federal quarantine since 1963, flew from Atlanta with his wife and federal marshals early Thursday, hospital spokesman William Allstetter said. He looked healthy and tan, and "he said he still felt fine," Allstetter said. Doctors plan to begin treating the man immediately with two antibiotics, one oral and one intravenous. He also will undergo a basic physical exam, a test to evaluate how infectious he is and a CT scan and lung X-ray, Allstetter said. Doctors hope to also determine where he contracted the disease. He will be kept in a special unit with two rooms and a ventilation system, Allstetter said. "He may not leave that room much for several weeks," Allstetter said. The man, who has not been publicly identified beyond his age, knew he had TB when he flew from Atlanta to Europe in mid-May for his wedding and honeymoon, but he didn't find out until he was already there that it was an extensively drug-resistant strain considered especially dangerous. Despite warnings from federal health officials not to board another long flight, the man flew home for treatment. Health officials in North America and Europe are trying to track down about 80 passengers who sat near him on the two trans-Atlantic flights, and they want passenger lists from four shorter flights the man took while in Europe. Patients on the shorter flights are not expected to be as much at risk, health officials said. Among those being tested are more than two dozen University of South Carolina Aiken students, school spokeswoman Jennifer Lake said Thursday. Two were apparently sitting near the man, possibly in the same row, she said. One of those students, Laney Wiggins, said she is awaiting her skin test results, expected Friday. "I'm very nervous," Wiggins told The (Columbia) State newspaper. "It's kind of sad that this is overshadowing the wonderful time we had in Europe." The man flew to Paris on May 12 aboard Air France Flight 385, also listed as Delta Air Lines codeshare Flight 8517, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He and his bride also took four shorter flights while in Europe - Paris to Athens on May 14; Athens to Thira Island May 16; Mykonos Island to Athens May 21; and Athens to Rome May 21 - but CDC officials said there was less risk of infection during the shorter hops compared to the trans-Atlantic flights, which each lasted eight hours or more. It was while the man was in Rome that he learned further U.S. tests had determined his TB was the rare, extensively drug-resistant form, far more dangerous than he knew. They told him turn himself over to Italian health officials and not to fly on any commercial airlines. Instead, on May 24, the man flew from Rome to Prague on Czech Air Flight 0727, then flew to Montreal aboard Czech Air Flight 0104 and drove into the U.S., according to CDC officials. Officials are trying to contact people who sat within five rows of him on the two longest flights for testing. Other passengers are not considered at high risk of infection because tests indicated the amount of TB bacteria in the man was low, said Dr. Martin Cetron, director of the CDC's division of global migration and quarantine. The infected man told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that doctors initially did not order him not to fly and only suggested he put off his long-planned wedding. "We headed off to Greece thinking everything's fine," he told the newspaper. Dr. Charles Daley, head of the infectious disease division at National Jewish Hopsital, said the hospital has treated two other patients with what appears to be the same strain of tuberculosis since 2000, although that strain had not been identified and named at the time. He said the patients had improved enough to be released. "With drug-resistant tuberculosis, it's quite a challenge to treat this," Daley told CNN Thursday. "The cure rate that's been reported in other places is very low. It's about 30 percent for XDR-TB." "This is a different patient, though. We're told that this is very early in the course, and most of the time when we get patients that it's very extensive and very far advanced. So I think we're more optimistic," he said. "We're aiming for cure. We know it's an uphill battle, but we hope to get there." Associated Press writers Mike Stobbe, Greg Bluestein and Daniel Yee in Atlanta contributed to this report. Public Health Agency of Canada:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TICKET_SCALPING?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 7:53 AM EDT Ticket Scalping Comes Out of the Shadows By DAVID B. CARUSO YORK (AP) -- The days of seeking out ticket-scalpers in the shadows, ducking into alleys and dodging police for that elusive Yankees-Red Sox seat are fading fast. New York is poised this week to become the latest state to ease or eliminate decades-old restrictions on scalping. For the first time, it would become entirely legal in the state for average fans to scalp their seats on the Internet. And, for better or worse, they could sell those tickets at what ever price the market is willing to bear. The state assembly approved the changes Tuesday. The Senate is expected to follow suit, and Gov. Eliot Spitzer could sign the measure by Friday, when the state's old anti-scalping law expires. "If you have something to sell, you should be able to sell it for what it is truly worth," said Sean Pate, spokesman for the online ticket broker StubHub Inc., which lobbied hard for the change. Some old regulations would stay in place. Scalpers would still be banned from selling tickets within 1,500 feet of large arenas, like Madison Square Garden and Yankee Stadium, and within 500 feet of smaller venues. Large-volume brokers would still need to get a license, too. It's those brokers who have Russ Haven of the New York Public Interest Research Group worried. Haven argues that lifting the price caps will only prompt greedy opportunists to snap up every available seat, and then jack up prices. "I think this is a bum deal for consumers," Haven said. "As it is, seats to popular events are often selling for 10 times their face price." "It may be that there will be some portion of tickets that go for less than face value, but that's not what they're all banking on," he said of the brokers and ticket agencies pushing for change. Other states have also reconsidered anti-scalping laws. Minnesota tossed its old anti-scalping laws this spring. The state previously allowed tickets to be resold only at face value. A bill that would ease Missouri's ban on selling tickets to sporting events at more than face value passed the legislature and is now before the governor. Illinois and Florida also recently did away with old anti-scalping rules, and bills to ease restrictions are under discussion in Massachusetts and Connecticut. The shift has been propelled in part by the explosion of Internet ticket sales that has made it nearly impossible for states to enforce price caps. New York's old rule limiting a seller's profits to no more than 45 percent over face value has been widely ignored online. But perhaps the biggest change was a switch in business strategy by some of the sports and entertainment companies that previously fought scalping the hardest: Realizing that a multibillion-dollar market was being left untapped, a growing number of teams and theaters have been entering the secondary ticket market themselves. The NCAA signed a deal last year to resell tournament tickets through RazorGator.com. The NBA and some NFL teams have made Ticketmaster their official reseller under an agreement that gives teams a percentage of the profit when a seat is resold. "There is obviously a business opportunity here for us," said Ticketmaster vice president Joseph Freeman. Yet to be seen is how much control sports teams, theaters and concert halls will retain over the tickets being resold. Some have pushed for legislation that would limit reselling to venue-approved brokerages, in part to cut down on the possibility of fraud. Both the New York Yankees and their archrival Boston Red Sox recently made a practice of cracking down on season ticket holders caught selling their unwanted seats on the Internet, in violation of team policy. New York's new rules, if signed in their current form, would actually ban New York sports teams from taking such punitive action. "My feeling is, if I have a ticket, and I can't go to a ballgame, I should certainly have a right to give it to my brother or my cousin - and if they want to pay me for it, why should I have to go through the Yankees to do it?" state Sen. Dean G. Skelos said.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/H/HURRICANE_FORECAST?SITE=OHRAV&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 10:12 AM EDT 9 Atlantic Hurricanes Forecast for 2007 History: A Look at the Past 150 Years in the U.S. Search by ZIP code: Poll: Coast Not Ready for Hurricanes 9 Atlantic Hurricanes Forecast for 2007 Tropical Storm Barbara Forms Off Mexico FORT COLLINS, Colo. (AP) -- With the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season a few hours away, researcher William Gray released his newest forecast Thursday still showing an expectation for 17 named storms and nine hurricanes, five of them intense. Gray, based at Colorado State University, described it as a very active season. He said there was a 74 percent chance of a major hurricane making landfall somewhere on the U.S. coast. There is a 50 percent chance of a major hurricane making landfall on the East Coast, including the Florida Peninsula, according to the new forecast; the long-term average is 31 percent. The chance of a major hurricane hitting the Gulf Coast between the Florida Panhandle and Brownsville, Texas, is 49 percent; the long-term average is 30 percent. There is also an above-average chance of a major hurricane making landfall in the Caribbean, according to the forecast. Thursday's forecast was largely unchanged from Gray's last forecast, released in early April. "We expect an above-average hurricane season," said Phil Klotzbach, a member of Gray's team and lead author of the forecast. The Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, averages 9.6 named storms, 5.9 hurricanes and 2.3 intense hurricanes per year. There were 10 named Atlantic storms last year and five hurricanes, two of them major. None of the hurricanes hit the U.S. Atlantic coast. The devastating 2005 season set a record with 28 named storms, 15 of them hurricanes. Four hurricanes hit the U.S. coast, the worst among them Katrina, which devastated parts of the Gulf Coast.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 12:53 PM EDT TB patient ID'd as Atlanta attorney, 31 TB Patient Says He Wasn't Told Not to Leave U.S. Q and A: Tuberculosis Scare (AP) -- The tuberculosis patient under the first federal quarantine since 1963 is a 31-year-old personal injury attorney who practices law with his father in Atlanta, a federal law enforcement official said Thursday. The official, who asked to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to talk about the case, identified the patient as Andrew Speaker. A medical official in Atlanta also confirmed the name on condition of anonymity. The man has a rare and dangerous form of tuberculosis that has proved resistant to drugs. He arrived at Denver's National Jewish Medical and Research Center for treatment Thursday, walking under his own power after flying from Atlanta with his wife and federal marshals, hospital spokesman William Allstetter said. He looked healthy and tan, and "he said he still felt fine," Allstetter said. Doctors plan to begin treating the man immediately with two antibiotics, one oral and one intravenous. He also will undergo a basic physical exam, a test to evaluate how infectious he is and a CT scan and lung X-ray, Allstetter said. Doctors hope to also determine where he contracted the disease. He will be kept in a special unit with two rooms and a ventilation system, Allstetter said. "He may not leave that room much for several weeks," Allstetter said. According to a biography posted on a Web site connected with Speaker's law firm, he attended the U.S. Naval Academy, graduated from the University of Georgia with a degree in finance, then attended University of Georgia's law school. His father, Ted Speaker, unsuccessfully ran for a Fulton County Superior Court judgeship in 2004, the same year his son was admitted into the Georgia Bar. Andrew Speaker recently moved from an upscale condominium complex in anticipation of his wedding, former neighbors said. He also wrote in an application to become a board member of his condo association that he was going to Vietnam for five weeks as part of the Rotary club to act as an ambassador. "He's a great guy. Gregarious," said Pam Hood, a former neighbor. "He's a wonderful guy. Just a very, very pleasant man." In a phone interview with the Atlanta Constitution-Journal from an Atlanta hospital earlier this week, he explained that he knew he had TB when he flew from Atlanta to Europe in mid-May for his wedding and honeymoon, but that he didn't find out until he was already there that it was an extensively drug-resistant strain considered especially dangerous. Despite warnings from federal health officials not to board another long flight, he flew home for treatment fearing he wouldn't survive if he didn't reach the U.S. Health officials in North America and Europe are now trying to track down about 80 passengers who sat near him on the two trans-Atlantic flights, and they want passenger lists from four shorter flights he took while in Europe. Patients on the shorter flights are not expected to be as much at risk, health officials said. Among those being tested are more than two dozen University of South Carolina Aiken students, school spokeswoman Jennifer Lake said Thursday. Two were apparently sitting near him, possibly in the same row, she said. One of those students, Laney Wiggins, said she is awaiting her skin test results, expected Friday. "I'm very nervous," Wiggins told The (Columbia) State newspaper. "It's kind of sad that this is overshadowing the wonderful time we had in Europe." The infected man had flown to Paris on May 12 aboard Air France Flight 385, also listed as Delta Air Lines codeshare Flight 8517, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He and his bride also took four shorter flights while in Europe - Paris to Athens on May 14; Athens to Thira Island May 16; Mykonos Island to Athens May 21; and Athens to Rome May 21 - but CDC officials said there was less risk of infection during the shorter hops compared to the trans-Atlantic flights, which each lasted eight hours or more. It was while they were in Rome that he learned further U.S. tests had determined his TB was the rare, extensively drug-resistant form, far more dangerous than he knew. Officials told him turn himself over to Italian health officials and not to fly on any commercial airlines. Instead, on May 24, he flew from Rome to Prague on Czech Air Flight 0727, then flew to Montreal aboard Czech Air Flight 0104 and drove into the U.S., according to CDC officials. Officials are trying to contact people who sat within five rows of him on the two longest flights for testing. Other passengers are not considered at high risk of infection because tests indicated the amount of TB bacteria in the man was low, said Dr. Martin Cetron, director of the CDC's division of global migration and quarantine. The infected man told The Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he wasn't coughing and that doctors initially did not order him not to fly and only suggested he put off his long-planned wedding. "We headed off to Greece thinking everything's fine," he told the newspaper. Dr. Charles Daley, head of the infectious disease division at National Jewish Hospital, said the hospital has treated two other patients with what appears to be the same strain of tuberculosis since 2000, although that strain had not been identified and named at the time. He said the patients had improved enough to be released. "With drug-resistant tuberculosis, it's quite a challenge to treat this," Daley told CNN Thursday. "The cure rate that's been reported in other places is very low. It's about 30 percent for XDR-TB." "This is a different patient, though. We're told that this is very early in the course, and most of the time when we get patients that it's very extensive and very far advanced. So I think we're more optimistic," he said. "We're aiming for cure. We know it's an uphill battle, but we hope to get there." Associated Press writers Lara Jakes Jordan in Washington, and Mike Stobbe, Greg Bluestein and Daniel Yee in Atlanta contributed to this report. Public Health Agency of Canada:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DELTA_WHALES?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 4:24 AM EDT Calif. whales provide new information FRANCISCO (AP) -- Scientists observing the wayward wanderings of two humpback whales in a California river have more to celebrate than their return to the Pacific Ocean - the duo provided an unexpected opportunity to study the endangered species. The information scientists gathered includes sound recordings, logs of their behavior and tissue samples from both the mother and calf, which will be analyzed to determine whether they come from a pod of whales that travel between Mexico and California. "All those things are very hard to get. So what we are doing is filling up the knowledge bank on humpback whales in the wild," said Jim Oswald, a spokesman for the nonprofit Marine Mammal Center, a private scientific and rescue organization. The experience also could prove helpful in approaching other stranded whales, he said. After spending more than two weeks trying to coax the whales back to sea with mixed results, officials were ready Wednesday to declare Operation Humpback a success. Since the previously conspicuous whales had not been seen for a full day, officials assumed the duo found their way home, undoing a wrong turn that inspired a range of rescue attempts. The whales, believed to be a mother and calf, were last observed at sunset Tuesday swimming in San Francisco Bay about 10 miles north of the city. A convoy of boats that accompanied the whales across the bay to keep traffic at a distance stopped escorting them when it got dark. Officials think the whales slipped out of San Francisco Bay to the open sea late Tuesday night or early Wednesday morning, when no one was watching. To make sure the whales did not take another wrong turn, two government boats were launched Wednesday morning to look for them in the Pacific Ocean. Rescuers relied on reports from commercial vessels and Coast Guard patrols to determine if the humpbacks still were in the bay. Officials said they will never know why the humpbacks swam 90 miles inland. But their journey marks the first time the same humpbacks were studied in the wild for so long, according to Bernadette Fees, deputy director of the California Department of Fish and Game. It also was the first time that whales swimming free in the wild were successfully treated with antibiotics. The pair apparently were injured by a boat at some point, and officials said their wounds might have played a role in their becoming stranded in the fresh water of the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta. Based on the way their skin deteriorated while they were in the delta, marine scientists now have a clearer idea of how long whales can survive in fresh water, Gulland said. After the whales were spotted near Sacramento on May 13, officials spent days trying to goad them back to the ocean, playing recordings of other whales, surrounding them with boats, blasting them with fire hoses and banging metal pipes dangling beneath the water. Those involved in the rescue effort said they did not know if the methods hastened the whales' exit or hindered it. They tried to strike a balance between getting the whales going and not making the problem worse. "What we ultimately came away with is that many of the techniques had some effect, but none of them could make a whale go in a direction it did not want to go," said John Calambokidis, a scientist with the nonprofit Cascadia Research Collective. Officials speculated Wednesday that antibiotics given to the whales on Saturday to try to heal their wounds may have been a factor in their departure. The pair began their hasty retreat from the delta after receiving them. Biologists said the saltier water where the mother humpback whale and her calf had been swimming since leaving the delta helped reverse some of the health problems caused by long exposure to fresh water. Gulland said she would not be ready to celebrate until Sunday, when she could be more certain the humpbacks were safely on their way. Officials were unsure how much was spent on the rescue efforts, but they insisted the expenditures of time and money were justified, if not required under wildlife protection laws. They urged people who were captivated by the whales and followed their progress to transfer their energy to protecting marine habitats. Associated Press writer Lisa Leff in Vallejo contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SPAIN_TREASURE_SHIP?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 12:18 PM EDT Spain files claim over treasure ship Fla. (AP) -- The Spanish government has filed claims in U.S. federal court over a shipwreck that a Florida firm found laden with colonial-era treasure, an attorney said Thursday. If the vessel was Spanish or was removed from that country's waters, any treasure would belong to Spain, said James Goold, an attorney representing the government. "It's a very well established principle under Spanish, U.S. and international law that a government such as the kingdom of Spain has not abandoned its sunken ships or sunken property, and that a company like Odyssey Marine Exploration may not conduct recovery operations without authorization by the government," he said. "The kingdom of Spain has not authorized any such operations by Odyssey, and by these legal actions it will see the return of any Spanish property Odyssey has recovered," Goold said of the claims filed Wednesday. Odyssey Marine Exploration Inc. CEO John Morris said in a statement Thursday that "such a move was anticipated by Odyssey and is considered normal in Admiralty cases." The company has previously said Odyssey would notify all claimants once it conclusively determined the ship's identity. Odyssey said it was not found in Spanish territorial waters. The company announced two weeks ago that it had discovered a shipwreck containing 500,000 gold and silver coins somewhere in the Atlantic Ocean. The Tampa-based company said the site was outside any country's territorial waters but would not give the exact location or name of the ship. Odyssey has said that the ship was not in Spanish territorial waters and was not the HMS Sussex, a shipwreck that Odyssey recently got permission from the Spanish government to search for in the Strait of Gibraltar. But Spain has called the new discovery suspicious and said the booty may have come from a wrecked Spanish galleon. In Britain, the find generated press reports that Odyssey had salvaged the wreck of the long-sought British vessel Merchant Royal, which sank in bad weather off England in 1641. Odyssey has not confirmed or denied these reports. Spain is using the U.S. law firm Covington & Burling, which has represented Spain over shipwreck cases before, including the recovery of material from two ships, Juno and La Galga, in a 2000 court case. The Spanish government won the case at that time. Odyssey shares rose 13 cents, about 2 percent, to $6.83 in volatile morning trading. Shares fell almost 4 percent early in the day. They have traded in a 52-week range of $1.52 to $9.45. Associated Press writers Jennifer Kay in Miami and Mar Roman in Madrid, Spain, contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/C/CIVIL_UNIONS?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 12:15 PM EDT N.H. governor signs civil unions law Australian gay bar can bar heterosexuals Russian police detain gay activists Gays flock to Fla. Panhandle for holiday Romney: I'm not intolerant of gays Hearing sought over linguists' discharge N.H. (AP) -- Gay couples in New Hampshire can start applying for many of the rights and responsibilities of marriage as early as January under a law Gov. John Lynch signed Thursday establishing civil unions. "We in New Hampshire have had a long and proud tradition taking the lead in opposing discrimination," Lynch said. "Today that tradition continues." Couples who enter civil unions will have the same rights, responsibilities and obligations as married couples. Same-sex unions from other states also would be recognized if they were legal in the state where they were performed. Legislators who gathered for the bill signing packed the governor's chambers and overflowed into an adjoining sitting room. They snapped photos and burst into applause as he signed it. "I've listened and I've heard all the arguments," said Lynch, a Democrat. "I do not believe that this bill threatens marriage. I believe that this is a matter of conscience and fairness." Episcopal Bishop V. Gene Robinson was among those attending. Although his consecration in 2003 as the first openly gay bishop in the Episcopal Church divided the worldwide Anglican Communion to which it belongs, Robinson and his longtime partner plan to take advantage of civil unions. "This is not a radical departure," Robinson said of the bill. "This is a real confirmation of what New Hampshire has always been about: the freedom of its own citizens and fairness for everyone." Robinson said he will not direct Episcopal priests in the state to bless same-sex unions, letting priests decide that individually. Such blessings have been another divisive issue for Episcopalians and the Anglican union. "That authority belongs to them and I would not in any way ask them not to do that. ... Just like in marriages, every priest will have the option to bless or not to bless," Robinson said. Massachusetts alone among the U.S. states allows gay marriage. Connecticut, Vermont, New Jersey, Maine, California and Washington allow either civil unions or domestic partnerships, and Oregon will join the list with New Hampshire in January. Hawaii extends certain spousal rights to same-sex couples and cohabiting heterosexual pairs. (This version CORRECTS name to Anglican Communion.)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/B/BILLY_GRAHAM_LIBRARY?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 12:52 PM EDT Dedication set for Billy Graham Library Dedication set for Billy Graham Library N.C. (AP) -- Visitors to the new, presidential-style museum honoring evangelist Billy Graham enter and exit the building through crosses as tall as 40 feet high, a design meant to emphasize that the $27-million complex is an extension of the minister's work. "My hope is there will be thousands of people who come here every year and accept Jesus Christ as their savior," said the Rev. Franklin Graham, son and successor to his father, the world's most widely heard preacher. On Thursday, former Presidents Carter, Clinton and George H.W. Bush were expected to be among 1,500 well-wishers at the private dedication of the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte. Billy Graham, 88, suffers from fluid on the brain, prostate cancer and Parkinson's disease, and is largely confined to his home in Montreat. Still, he was scheduled to speak at the ceremony. It will take place in view of his childhood home, which was moved to the library site and restored. His wife Ruth, 86, has degenerative osteoarthritis of the back and neck and is bedridden at their home. Billy Graham has toured the museum, "tearing up" when he came to the room dedicated to Ruth, Franklin Graham said. His only complaint? "Too much Billy Graham," according to his son. The 40,000-square-foot complex was built on the grounds of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, and among its designers was the ITEC Entertainment Co., of Orlando, Fla., which has done work for Disney and other theme parks. The dairy farm where the preacher grew up is just a few miles from the site and the library reflects his roots. The cavernous lobby is meant to resemble a barn with scattered bales of hay and milk cans. The sounds of a cackling chicken and neighing horse are piped in. The first Bible verse Graham's mother taught him, John 3:16, "For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son," is engraved onto a rafter. To the right is a cow shed, where a display that has drawn the most curiosity stands. An animatronic black-and-white cow named Bessie says in a southern drawl that Graham has been "preaching the pure milk of God's word for 60 years." Bessie tells kids to "get moo-ving" to learn more about the preacher. Critics have dubbed the display the "Golden Calf" and say it cheapens Billy Graham's legacy. But Franklin Graham said it is meant as an appeal to children. The museum, which reporters toured before the ceremony Thursday, is more heartfelt tribute than scholarly review. Graham's personal papers will be stored at the museum, while documents related to his crusades will remain in an archive at Wheaton College, the prominent evangelical school in Illinois where the minister and his wife met as students. There are photos of Graham with the U.S. presidents he befriended going back six decades, and displays of gifts they gave him, including a golf club and a check that President Nixon had given the preacher as an offering. However, there is no mention of how Graham's close ties with Nixon had cast a shadow on the minister. Old TV sets broadcast clips of the troubled times in America when Graham preached, including the Civil Rights era. Graham has been praised for integrating his crusades starting in 1953, but also criticized for his restrained support for the movement. Designers have recreated the scene of Graham's 1949 Los Angeles tent revival, dubbed the "Canvas Cathedral," that lasted for weeks, drawing national attention to his ministry for the first time. A replica of the Berlin Wall is meant to underscore how remarkable it was that Graham won permission from communist governments to evangelize behind the Iron Curtain. Billy Graham's children have been divided over where their parents should be buried - at the library or at The Cove, a Bible training center near the Grahams' home. Franklin Graham believes his parents have decided the location, but "haven't made that public yet." A trip through the museum ends with video from the crusades, now called festivals, that Franklin Graham leads as chief executive of the evangelistic association. Asked for his thoughts on the state of evangelism, Franklin Graham warned about a creeping "liberalism" that is leading people to question the authority of Scripture. "Every generation, liberalism comes into the church. Men and women take their eyes off the cross," he said. "My father didn't offer multiple roads to God. He offered one road." Billy Graham Evangelistic Association:
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TICKET_SCALPING?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 7:53 AM EDT Ticket scalping comes out of the shadows By DAVID B. CARUSO YORK (AP) -- The days of seeking out ticket-scalpers in the shadows, ducking into alleys and dodging police for that elusive Yankees-Red Sox seat are fading fast. New York is poised this week to become the latest state to ease or eliminate decades-old restrictions on scalping. For the first time, it would become entirely legal in the state for average fans to scalp their seats on the Internet. And, for better or worse, they could sell those tickets at what ever price the market is willing to bear. The state assembly approved the changes Tuesday. The Senate is expected to follow suit, and Gov. Eliot Spitzer could sign the measure by Friday, when the state's old anti-scalping law expires. "If you have something to sell, you should be able to sell it for what it is truly worth," said Sean Pate, spokesman for the online ticket broker StubHub Inc., which lobbied hard for the change. Some old regulations would stay in place. Scalpers would still be banned from selling tickets within 1,500 feet of large arenas, like Madison Square Garden and Yankee Stadium, and within 500 feet of smaller venues. Large-volume brokers would still need to get a license, too. It's those brokers who have Russ Haven of the New York Public Interest Research Group worried. Haven argues that lifting the price caps will only prompt greedy opportunists to snap up every available seat, and then jack up prices. "I think this is a bum deal for consumers," Haven said. "As it is, seats to popular events are often selling for 10 times their face price." "It may be that there will be some portion of tickets that go for less than face value, but that's not what they're all banking on," he said of the brokers and ticket agencies pushing for change. Other states have also reconsidered anti-scalping laws. Minnesota tossed its old anti-scalping laws this spring. The state previously allowed tickets to be resold only at face value. A bill that would ease Missouri's ban on selling tickets to sporting events at more than face value passed the legislature and is now before the governor. Illinois and Florida also recently did away with old anti-scalping rules, and bills to ease restrictions are under discussion in Massachusetts and Connecticut. The shift has been propelled in part by the explosion of Internet ticket sales that has made it nearly impossible for states to enforce price caps. New York's old rule limiting a seller's profits to no more than 45 percent over face value has been widely ignored online. But perhaps the biggest change was a switch in business strategy by some of the sports and entertainment companies that previously fought scalping the hardest: Realizing that a multibillion-dollar market was being left untapped, a growing number of teams and theaters have been entering the secondary ticket market themselves. The NCAA signed a deal last year to resell tournament tickets through RazorGator.com. The NBA and some NFL teams have made Ticketmaster their official reseller under an agreement that gives teams a percentage of the profit when a seat is resold. "There is obviously a business opportunity here for us," said Ticketmaster vice president Joseph Freeman. Yet to be seen is how much control sports teams, theaters and concert halls will retain over the tickets being resold. Some have pushed for legislation that would limit reselling to venue-approved brokerages, in part to cut down on the possibility of fraud. Both the New York Yankees and their archrival Boston Red Sox recently made a practice of cracking down on season ticket holders caught selling their unwanted seats on the Internet, in violation of team policy. New York's new rules, if signed in their current form, would actually ban New York sports teams from taking such punitive action. "My feeling is, if I have a ticket, and I can't go to a ballgame, I should certainly have a right to give it to my brother or my cousin - and if they want to pay me for it, why should I have to go through the Yankees to do it?" state Sen. Dean G. Skelos said.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION_ANALYSIS?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 10:37 AM EDT TB on a plane? Sign of the times (AP) -- SARS on a plane. Mumps on a plane. And now a rare and deadly form of tuberculosis, on at least two planes. Commercial air travel's potential for spreading infection continues to cause handwringing among public health officials, as news of a jet-setting man with a rare and deadly form of TB demonstrates. "We always think of planes as a vehicle for spreading disease," said Dr. Doug Hardy, an infectious disease specialist at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas. In the latest case, a Georgia man with extensively drug-resistant TB ignored doctors' advice and took two trans-Atlantic flights, leading to the first U.S. government-ordered quarantine since 1963. The man, who officials did not identify, had been quarantined at Atlanta's Grady Memorial Hospital until Thursday morning, when he was transferred to Denver's National Jewish Hospital for treatment, Jewish Hospital spokesman William Allstetter said. He walked into the building and said he felt fine, Allstetter said. The hospital has treated two other patients with what appears to be the same strain of tuberculosis since 2000 and both improved enough to be released, according to Dr. Charles Daley, head of the infectious disease division at National Jewish. "I think we're more optimistic than what we have been hearing in reports that we will be able to control this infection," Daley told CNN Thursday morning. "We're aiming for cure. We know it's an uphill battle." The patient was not considered highly contagious, and there are no confirmed reports that his illness spread to other passengers. But the case illustrates ongoing concerns about the public health perils of plane travel, as well as the continuing problem of Typhoid Mary-like individuals who can almost be counted on to do the wrong thing. The man decided to proceed with a long-planned wedding trip despite being advised not to fly. "There's always going to be situations where there is a lack of understanding and appreciation of responsibility to the community in a situation like this," said Dr. John Ho, an infectious diseases specialist at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. The case also points out weaknesses in the system: The man was able to re-enter the United States, even though he said he had been warned by federal officials that his passport was being flagged and he was being placed on a no-fly list. CDC officials said they contacted the Department of Homeland Security to put the man on a no-fly list, but it doesn't appear he was added by the time he flew from Prague to Montreal and drove across the border from Canada. A Transportation Security Administration spokesman could not be reached for comment Wednesday. Challenges in coordinating with airlines and in communicating with the media also have emerged, said Glen Nowak, a spokesman for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. "This clearly is going to have some relevance to our pandemic influenza preparedness," Nowak said. There have been several prominent disease-on-a-plane incidents in recent years. Perhaps best known is severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which erupted in Asia in 2003. Over three months, CDC workers delayed on the tarmac 12,000 airplanes carrying 3 million passengers arriving from SARS-affected countries, isolating people with SARS symptoms. Last year, CDC officials worked with airlines and state health departments to track two infected airline passengers who may have helped spread a mumps epidemic throughout the Midwest. And in March, a flight from Hong Kong was held at Newark International Airport for two hours because some on board reported feeling ill from a flu-like illness. They were released when it became clear they had seasonal flu, and not an avian variety. Medical experts say TB is significantly less contagious than flu, SARS and other maladies that have led to airport alerts. "This is not as easily transmissible as what we're concerned about with a flu pandemic," said Dr. William Schaffner, chairman of the department of preventive medicine at Vanderbilt University. A more contagious bug, carried by a stubborn or evasive passenger, could be much more problematic, experts said. It's remarkable how rarely serious contagions are on planes, Ho noted. "If you count the number of international flights there are on a daily basis, this is really a minuscule event" in terms of rate of occurrence, he said. "However, this underscores the interrelatedness of the global community. We can no longer escape things considered foreign" in this age of jet-travel, Ho said. Associated Press writer Malcolm Ritter in New York contributed to this report.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SLAVERY_APOLOGY?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 11:14 AM EDT Alabama gov. signs slavery apology Ala. (AP) -- Gov. Bob Riley signed a resolution Thursday expressing "profound regret" for Alabama's role in slavery and apologizing for slavery's wrongs and lingering effects. "Slavery was evil and is a part of American history," the Republican governor said. "I believe all Alabamians are proud of the tremendous progress we have made and continue to make." Alabama is the fourth Southern state to pass a slavery apology, following votes by the legislatures in Maryland, Virginia and North Carolina. Alabama's Democrat-controlled Legislature approved the resolution last week. The Alabama resolution describes "centuries of brutal dehumanization and injustices" and says "the vestiges of slavery are ever before African-American citizens." It also says the House and Senate "express our profound regret for the State of Alabama's role in slavery and that we apologize for the wrongs inflicted by slavery and its after effects in the United States of America." "This proves Alabama is open for everyone and we are ready to improve race relations," said state Rep. Mary Moore, a Birmingham Democrat who sponsored the resolution. "The issue of slavery and its impact on the country had been kept in the closet until a few Southern states said, 'We want to take it out of the closet.'"
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/H/HURRICANE_FORECAST?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 10:12 AM EDT 9 Atlantic hurricanes forecast for 2007 History: A Look at the Past 150 Years in the U.S. Search by ZIP code: Tropical Storm Barbara weakens in Mexico Poll: Coast not ready for hurricanes 9 Atlantic hurricanes forecast for 2007 FORT COLLINS, Colo. (AP) -- With the 2007 Atlantic hurricane season a few hours away, researcher William Gray released his newest forecast Thursday still showing an expectation for 17 named storms and nine hurricanes, five of them intense. Gray, based at Colorado State University, described it as a very active season. He said there was a 74 percent chance of a major hurricane making landfall somewhere on the U.S. coast. There is a 50 percent chance of a major hurricane making landfall on the East Coast, including the Florida Peninsula, according to the new forecast; the long-term average is 31 percent. The chance of a major hurricane hitting the Gulf Coast between the Florida Panhandle and Brownsville, Texas, is 49 percent; the long-term average is 30 percent. There is also an above-average chance of a major hurricane making landfall in the Caribbean, according to the forecast. Thursday's forecast was largely unchanged from Gray's last forecast, released in early April. "We expect an above-average hurricane season," said Phil Klotzbach, a member of Gray's team and lead author of the forecast. The Atlantic hurricane season, which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30, averages 9.6 named storms, 5.9 hurricanes and 2.3 intense hurricanes per year. There were 10 named Atlantic storms last year and five hurricanes, two of them major. None of the hurricanes hit the U.S. Atlantic coast. The devastating 2005 season set a record with 28 named storms, 15 of them hurricanes. Four hurricanes hit the U.S. coast, the worst among them Katrina, which devastated parts of the Gulf Coast.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MILITARY_PROTEST_HEARING?SITE=NYUTI&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT uticaOD.com - The Observer-Dispatch | Place Ad | Contact Us MV Hall of Fame May 31, 11:14 AM EDT Marine vet faces hearing over protest Search the DOD Surplus Database GAO Report on Military Recruiting U.S.: China lacks power for Taiwan fight AP: Marines fail to get gear to troops Bush wants Geren to be Army secretary U.S. may shift to noncombat role in Iraq Hearing sought over linguists' discharge Strategists weigh alternatives for Iraq Army says Dragon Skin armor falls short House backs ban on F-14 parts for Iran Army tries incentives to keep officers CITY, Mo. (AP) -- An Iraq war veteran could lose his honorable discharge status after being photographed wearing fatigues at an anti-war protest. Marine Cpl. Adam Kokesh and other veterans marked the fourth anniversary of the war in Iraq in March by wearing their uniforms - with military insignia removed - and roaming around the nation's capital on a mock patrol. After Kokesh was identified in a photo cutline in The Washington Post, a superior officer sent him a letter saying he might have violated a rule prohibiting troops from wearing uniforms without authorization. Kokesh, a member of Iraq Veterans Against the War, responded with an obscenity. Now, a military panel has been scheduled to meet with Kokesh on Monday to decide whether his discharge status should be changed from "honorable" to "other than honorable." "This is clearly a case of selective prosecution and intimidation of veterans who speak out against the war," Kokesh said. "To suggest that while as a veteran you don't have freedom of speech is absurd." Kokesh is part of the Individual Ready Reserve, a segment of the reserves that consists mainly of those who have left active duty but still have time remaining on their eight-year military obligations. His attorney, Mike Lebowitz, said Kokesh's IRR status ends June 18. He said at least three other veterans have been investigated because of their involvement at demonstrations. Kokesh, 25, enlisted in the Marines while still attending high school in New Mexico. He was a reservist in an artillery unit, assigned to the November Battery, 5th Battalion, 14th Regiment of the 4th Division based out of Pico Rivera, Calif., near Los Angeles. Kokesh said he had reservations about Iraq even before the United States invaded, but wanted to go there to help rebuild schools and mosques after Saddam Hussein's regime was toppled. He even learned Arabic. He said he grew disillusioned with the war during his first tour, and now believes there is no way for the country to achieve the rule of law with a foreign military imposing martial law. He was supposed to go to Iraq a second time, but was demoted from sergeant to corporal and not allowed to return after it was learned that he brought a pistol back after his first tour in 2004. Kokesh argues that he was not representing the military at the protest in Washington, and he made that clear by removing his name tag and other military insignia from his uniform. Lebowitz said Kokesh technically is a civilian unless recalled to active duty and had the right to be disrespectful in his response to the officer. He called the proceedings against Kokesh highly unusual and said the military usually seeks to change a veteran's discharge status only if a crime has been committed. If his discharge status is changed, Kokesh said he could lose some health benefits and be forced to repay about $10,800 he received to obtain his undergraduate degree on the GI Bill. Kokesh said he holds no ill will toward the Marines. "I love the Marine Corps," he said. "I always have loved the Marine Corps, and that is why I'm particularly offended to see it being used for political ends." (This version CORRECTS date of protest to March sted April.)
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/P/PEDESTRIANS_STRUCK?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 12:25 PM EDT Police: Driver used crack before crash Police: Driver used crack before crash (AP) -- The woman charged with plowing a car through a crowded street festival at speeds up to 70 mph had been "smoking crack all day long," Police Chief Cathy Lanier said, citing statements from the woman and witnesses. At least 40 people were injured as the car sent people and baby strollers flying, Mayor Adrian M. Fenty said Sunday. Tonya Bell, 30, was preliminarily charged with aggravated assault while armed, with the "armed" designation referring to use of a vehicle. She faced a hearing in District of Columbia Superior Court on Monday. Authorities believe Bell, of Oxon Hill, Md., was going about 70 mph Saturday evening when she drove through Unifest, a church-sponsored street festival in southeast Washington. She was treated for an ankle injury, police said. Officials were still waiting for toxicology results. Bell appeared to be laughing as she drove the car with flattened tires and broken windows into the crowd, said Linda Greene, who saw Bell's car from her porch. "The car just passed so fast, and all of a sudden I just heard people screaming," said Denise Jackson. "I turned around, and it was like bodies falling out of the sky." Her son, 4-year-old Marcellus Jackson, was thrown out of the speeding car's path by his father, Fenty said. Marcellus suffered a broken leg. His father, Vincent Hayes, was hit by the car but was OK. Police said Bell was seen driving erratically and had struck an unmarked police car 20 minutes before the injuries at the street festival. Police Cmdr. Patrick Burke said officers had followed Bell's station wagon but were told to stop because the traffic violation did not pose a threat to officers. After the car entered the crowd, police didn't use their weapons because of the risk to civilians. Instead, officers risked their lives and threw two motor scooters under the station wagon to bring it to a stop, Lanier said. Two officers suffered minor injuries. One woman said her husband reached into the car and put it in park. A 7-year-old girl in the car with Bell was not injured and was taken by Child Protective Services. Her identity was not released. 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TERRORISM_PLOT?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 11:57 AM EDT Informant helped bust alleged JFK plot Drug Convict Helped Bust JFK Plot Criminal complaint against Eljvir Duka in Fort Dix plot case Hearing Transcript: Waleed Mohammed bin Attash Hearing Transcript: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed Hearing Transcript Abu Faraj al-Libi Hearing Transcript: Ramzi Binalshibh Declassified Report: Iraq 'Cause Celebre' for Extremists Group denies link to NYC terror plot Informant helped bust alleged JFK plot Man jailed after false terror threat U.S. warns of terror in Philippine towns Gordon Brown plans new anti-terror laws Alleged JFK Airport Terror Plot Map of JFK International Airport Alleged Terrorism Plot at JFK Airport NEW YORK (AP) -- Four men accused of plotting to bomb a fuel pipeline feeding the city's busiest airport were so taken by an informant that they were sure God had sent him to them, authorities said. The informant made several overseas trips to discuss the plot against John F. Kennedy International Airport, even visiting a radical Muslim group's compound in Trinidad, officials said. He also joined the plotters on airport surveillance trips - where authorities were waiting, they said. The suspects were convinced he was guided by a higher purpose: The ringleader believed the informant "had been sent by Allah to be the one" to pull off the bombing, according to a federal complaint. Authorities said the plot, revealed Saturday, demonstrated the growing importance of informants in efforts to combat terrorism, particularly as smaller radical groups become more aggressive. Accused mastermind Russell Defreitas, 63, is now in custody in New York, where he was due to have a bail hearing Wednesday. But two other suspects, Kareem Ibrahim and Abdul Kadir, a former member of Guyana's Parliament, were in Trinidad and will fight extradition to the United States, their lawyer, Rajid Persad, told a Trinidadian court Monday. The two made their initial court appearance there on one count each of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act against the government of the United States. The judge set a bail hearing for June 11 and an extradition hearing Aug. 2. Authorities in Trinidad are seeking a fourth suspect, Abdel Nur. Tom Corrigan, a former member of the FBI-New York Police Department Joint Terrorism Task Force, said the Kennedy airport case and the recent plot to attack Fort Dix illustrated the need for inside information. Six men were arrested in a plot to attack soldiers at the New Jersey military base after an FBI informant infiltrated that group. "These have been two significant cases back-to-back where informants were used," Corrigan said. "These terrorists are in our own backyard. They may have to reach out to people they don't necessarily trust, but they need - for guns, explosives, whatever." Without informants, Corrigan said, investigators are often left with little more than educated guesswork. "In most cases, you can't get from A to B without an informant," the ex-NYPD detective said. In the Kennedy airport case, the informant was a twice-convicted drug dealer who found himself in the midst of what investigators called a terrorist plot conceived as more devastating than the Sept. 11 attacks. "Would you like to die as a martyr?" the informant was asked, according to the indictment. He unhesitatingly replied yes and soon was making surveillance trips around the airport - the "chicken farm," as the planners dubbed their target. Authorities said the JFK scheme was an example of homegrown terrorism. Defreitas, 63, immigrated to the U.S. more than 30 years ago, but he told the federal informant that his feelings of disgust toward his adopted homeland had lingered for years. "Before terrorism started in this country," he said in one secretly recorded conversation. Defreitas was arrested Friday night outside Brooklyn's Lindenwood Diner - a spot once bugged by federal officials tracking former Gambino family boss John A. "Junior" Gotti. The four Muslim men accused in the JFK plot didn't turn to Pakistan, Iran or Afghanistan for support after targeting the airport, home to an average of 1,000 daily flights and 45 million passengers annually. Instead, according to a federal complaint, the informant, Ibrahim and Defreitas visited a compound belonging to Jamaat al Muslimeen, a radical Islamic group known for launching a bloody 1990 coup attempt in Trinidad that involved taking the prime minister and his Cabinet hostage. It left 24 people dead. Though Jamaat al Muslimeen did have contact with the men accused in the Kennedy airport plot, it is not accused of offering them any support. The group, whose followers are largely black converts to Sunni Islam, has faded as a political force in Trinidad as its leader, Yasin Abu Bakr, fends off criminal charges of inciting violence. The rebels in the 1990 raid on Parliament surrendered and were pardoned. When Defreitas discussed his radical "brothers" with the informant, he made it clear they were not Arabs, but from Trinidad and Guyana. The complaint made clear the informant had deeply infiltrated the group. Defreitas, a retired JFK airport cargo worker, made four reconnaissance missions to the airport, authorities said. They captured each one on audio and video equipment. Ibrahim and another suspect, Abdul Kadir, were in custody in Trinidad awaiting extradition hearings. Officials identified Kadir as a former mayor of a Guyanese town and a member of the country's Parliament. Associated Press Writers Tony Fraser in Port-of-Spain, Trinidad, and Pat Milton in New York contributed to this report. 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MISSOURI_EXECUTIONS?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 3:49 PM EDT Court backs Mo. death penalty procedure Views on the Death Penalty: A Global Perspective Death Penalty by State Court backs Mo. death penalty procedure Texas inmate seeks jokes for last words Texas babysitter facing execution Ohio inmate took twice as long to die Texas court dumps woman's death sentence LOUIS (AP) -- A federal appeals court opened the way for Missouri to resume executing inmates, ruling Monday that the state's lethal injection procedure is not cruel and unusual punishment. The case filed on behalf of condemned killer Michael Taylor had effectively halted Missouri executions since early last year. A judge said he wanted to be sure that the three-drug injection method did not cause risk of pain and suffering. A three-judge panel of the 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals found "no evidence to indicate that any of the last six inmates executed suffered any unnecessary pain," according to its ruling. The court's decision reversed a ruling by U.S. District Judge Fernando Gaitan Jr. ordering reforms to Missouri's lethal injection procedures. He wanted the state to involve a doctor specializing in anesthesia, but the state has been unable to find a doctor willing to participate. Missouri is among nine states that have put executions on hold as it grapples with whether lethal injection is inhumane. Attorney General Jay Nixon said the decision "reopens the necessary legal avenue for the state of Missouri to move forward on this issue." Gov. Matt Blunt said he is directing the Department of Corrections to prepare execution procedures in compliance with the ruling. "One of the most important jobs I have as governor is to help keep Missourians safe," Blunt said. "Capital punishment is a vital deterrent to the most serious of crimes." Margaret Phillips of the Eastern Missouri Coalition Against the Death Penalty said many questions remain unanswered and it would be unwise for the state to renew executions. "The uncertainty of all of this is a good indication that Missouri needs a moratorium on the death penalty," she said. Taylor, convicted of killing 15-year-old Ann Harrison in Kansas City in 1989, was hours away from being put to death in February 2006 when the execution was halted. His attorney, Ginger Anders, said she would appeal Monday's ruling but declined further comment. 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SMUGGLING_CHILDREN?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 4:39 PM EDT Women prosecuted for smuggling children By AMANDA LEE MYERS Women prosecuted for smuggling children Toddler dies in auto-starting dishwasher Boy killed by colliding cruisers in Pa. (AP) -- An increasing number of illegal immigrants who left their children back home are hiring complete strangers to bring the youngsters into this country by bluffing their way past U.S. border inspectors. Typically, the stranger poses as the child's mother or another relative as she drives through a checkpoint. Sometimes the children are given cough syrup to sedate them and ensure they don't say or do anything to make border guards suspicious. U.S. officials say they are seeing more such cases because stepped-up enforcement along the border has made it more dangerous to sneak into the country by trekking across the desert. "People who may be afraid or think it's too dangerous to bring a child through the desert when it's 120 degrees think it's better to place a child in the hands of a total stranger," said Roger Maier, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman in Texas. U.S. officials warned that entrusting children to a stranger is foolish, too. "There's no guarantee that you're going to be reunited with your child. There's no guarantee that your child is being cared for," said Brian Levin, a U.S. Customs and Border Protection spokesman in Arizona. Nevertheless, officials at the border could not cite a specific case of a child being hurt or stolen in the smuggling scheme. Dozens of U.S. citizens, permanent residents and other women with a legal right to be in this country have been prosecuted in the past few years for trying to smuggle children into the U.S. Border officials said they do not have exact numbers but believe such cases are on the rise. The women are typically poor, and are hired by smugglers for $100 to $500 for the transaction. They are often mothers themselves, and use their own children's birth certificates when they drive through a checkpoint. "They're a vulnerable class of people who get sucked into this," said Joel Parris, an assistant federal public defender in Tucson who has defended several women smugglers. "These women are so focused on surviving and taking care of their own kids, when someone comes with a pity trip, their sympathy is so strong they can't resist." Ana Meza-Montano, a 36-year-old single mother from Agua Prieta, Mexico, across the border from Douglas, Ariz., had a border crossing card that allowed her to enter the United States for short periods to shop and run other errands. Meza-Montano was caught at the Douglas port of entry trying to smuggle a 1-year-old girl who she said was her daughter. Parris, who defended her, said Meza-Montano agreed to the transaction because a smuggler offered to pay off her son's $100 bicycle, which was on layaway at a Wal-Mart. The woman is serving a 15-month prison sentence. Sandra Ramirez, a 24-year-old single mother of four, was caught trying to sneak an 11-year-old boy through the Nogales, Ariz., port of entry, and said a co-worker offered her $1,000 to do it. Now Ramirez is serving a 15-month prison sentence and will be deported to Mexico after she gets out. "This is just one of the most overwhelmingly saddest cases," said Ramirez's lawyer, Stephanie Meade. "She had no idea of the kind of consequences and trouble that she would get in." Officials say the smuggling tactic has become more common partly because more illegal immigrants are deciding to bring their families into the country. In the past, it was more common for men to leave their families behind and return periodically for visits. Also, because of tighter enforcement by the Border Patrol and the National Guard, illegal immigrants who want to sneak across the desert are being forced to make the attempt along more remote, more rugged - and more dangerous - stretches of the border. The U.S. Attorney's Office in Arizona has made prosecuting these child-smuggling cases one of its top priorities. "Children are being put in situations where the risk of something happening to them is high, and we felt that people need to be held accountable for this," spokesman Wyn Hornbuckle said. He added: "There are many examples of how violent these smuggling organizations are and how ruthless they've become, and they'd be the last people I'd entrust my kids to." U.S. Customs and Border Protection: 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MILITARY_PROTEST_HEARING?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 2:51 PM EDT Anti-war Marine blasts military Search the DOD Surplus Database GAO Report on Military Recruiting VFW backs vet in trouble over protest U.S.: China lacks power for Taiwan fight AP: Marines fail to get gear to troops Bush wants Geren to be Army secretary U.S. may shift to noncombat role in Iraq Hearing sought over linguists' discharge Strategists weigh alternatives for Iraq Army says Dragon Skin armor falls short House backs ban on F-14 parts for Iran Army tries incentives to keep officers CITY, Mo. (AP) -- An Iraq War veteran accused the Marine Corps on Monday of causing a "disgusting waste of government resources" by holding a hearing about whether he should be punished for wearing his uniform during an anti-war protest. Marine Corps officials argue they are enforcing military codes in the case of Cpl. Adam Kokesh. Kokesh, 25, participated in an anti-war protest in Washington in March. When he was identified in a photo caption in The Washington Post, a superior officer sent him an e-mail saying he might have violated a rule prohibiting troops from wearing uniforms without authorization. Kokesh responded with a letter that contained an obscenity. Kokesh is a member of the Individual Ready Reserve, which consists mainly of those who have left active duty but still have time remaining on their eight-year military obligations. His service is due to end June 18, but the Marine Corps is seeking to let him go two weeks early with a less-than-honorable discharge. That could cut some of his health benefits and force him to repay about $10,800 he received to obtain his undergraduate degree on the GI Bill. Kokesh's attorney, Lt. Jeremy Melaragno, said during an administrative separation board hearing that his client's free-speech rights are at stake. "It has everything to do with freedom of speech," Melaragno said. "Ask yourself, would we be here if he was advocating for the Bush administration?" During a break in the hearing, Kokesh told reporters that the case appears to be punitive. "More importantly, it's a case of fraud, waste and abuse and a disgusting waste of government resources," Kokesh said. "While Marines are dying every day in Iraq, they are spending time investigating members of the individual ready reserves for political activity." Kokesh was honorably discharged following a combat tour in Iraq, but he remains part of the Individual Ready Reserve, comprised of those who have left active duty but still have time remaining on their eight-year military obligations. His attorneys said Kokesh was not subject to military rules during the protest because he was not on active duty. They said the protest was a theatrical performance, which meant wearing a uniform was a not a violation of military rules. The military considered it a political event, at which personnel are not allowed to wear their uniforms without authorization. The Marines' first witness, Maj. John R. Whyte, testified Monday he was the officers who wrote Kokesh the e-mail informing him the Marines were investigating the possible uniform violation. On cross examination, the defense had Whyte read a memo he had written on how the Corps should respond to protests. "There should be manpower assigned to search for and remediate misinformation by opposition groups and individuals," he read. Whyte recommended Kokesh's discharge be "other than honorable." Several Kokesh supporters turned out Monday at the Marine Corps Mobilization Command and stood in front of a bus painted with anti-war slogans. Kokesh was a reservist in an artillery unit when he became disillusioned with the war during his first tour. He said he believes there is no way for Iraq to achieve rule of law with a foreign military imposing martial law. 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MICHIGAN_ABORTION?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 12:54 PM EDT Appeals court rejects Mich. abortion law how your responses stack up against the majority of Americans on abortion. LANSING, Mich. (AP) -- A federal appeals court Monday rejected Michigan's attempt to ban a procedure opponents call partial-birth abortion, ruling the law unconstitutional because it could also prohibit other abortion procedures. A three-judge panel of the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeal said the Michigan Legislature would have been "virtually guaranteed" a favorable result on appeal had it copied an Ohio law that the 6th Circuit already has upheld. "It instead opted to use statutory language that pushed almost every boundary that the Supreme Court has imposed for these types of laws," the judges said. Previous attempts by Michigan lawmakers to stop the procedure were struck down by federal courts in 1997 and 2001. The U.S. Supreme Court in April upheld the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, with the majority opinion carefully distinguishing the controversial procedure from a more common abortion method used in the second trimester of pregnancy. The latter was unaffected by the ruling. The appeals panel affirmed a Detroit district judge's opinion that the 2004 Legal Birth Definition Act in Michigan places an "undue burden" on a woman's right to have an abortion. Abortion rights groups have said the law - unlike the federal ban and the law in Ohio - overreached and would have banned pre-viable abortions, including the most common method of second-trimester abortion. The appeals court agreed. "The Michigan statute contains no similar exception or clear definitions that would avoid sweeping up protected abortion procedures within its prohibition," the court wrote. The Michigan Legislature approved the abortion law in June 2004. Hundreds of thousands of voters signed petitions that allowed the bill to become law with only the approval of the House and Senate - both of which were controlled by Republicans at the time - after Democratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm vetoed it. 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/A/AIRMAN_SHOOTING?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 3:31 PM EDT Airman testifies about deputy shooting BERNARDINO, Calif. (AP) -- An Iraq war veteran testified Monday that a deputy ordered him to get up from the ground twice during a videotaped confrontation after a car chase and then shot him three times when he tried to comply. Senior Airman Elio Carrion said the deputy swore repeatedly at him as he tried to explain that he was in the military and was not a threat as he lay near the passenger-side door. "I said, 'I'm in the military, I'm in the (expletive) military. Believe me, we mean you no harm,'" Carrion testified. "And the officer says, 'OK, get up' and I repeat that I'm going to get up, and as I get up, he shoots me." Former San Bernadino Sheriff's Deputy Ivory J. Webb Jr., 46, has pleaded not guilty to felony charges of voluntary attempted manslaughter and assault with a firearm. If convicted, he could face more than 18 years in prison. Deputy District Attorney Lewis Cope replayed an amateur video of the Jan. 29, 2006, shooting recorded by a bystander and broadcast on TV stations nationwide. Carrion, 23, showed no emotion as he watched the footage that showed him being shot in the chest, left leg and left shoulder. His relatives in the audience appeared to struggle to hold back tears. Webb's lawyer said during the trial's opening statements that Webb may have told Carrion, "Don't get up!" He also said that just seconds before the gunfire, Carrion's hand moved toward his jacket pocket - something police often believe means a suspect is going for a weapon. Authorities later determined Carrion was unarmed. Carrion testified that Webb never told him to stay on the ground. He said that in the minutes after the shooting, he thought he was going to die and struggled to stay conscious. The video shows him face-down on the street and his hands cuffed behind him, as more police cars arrive. He recalled asking other deputies why Webb had shot him. "There was one time when someone asked me if I was OK. I said 'yeah.' I said, I believe, 'Why did he shoot me? He told me to get up and he shot me three times,'" Carrion testified. Carrion did not remember if the person replied. "At the time, I thought if I close my eyes or if I see black, I don't know if I'll wake up next time," he said. Carrion testified earlier that he began the night at a barbecue held in his honor as he prepared to return to his base in Louisiana after a 30-day leave from Iraq. Carrion and Luis Escobedo left the party in a friend's 2004 blue Corvette. Both had been drinking, and soon a deputy was in pursuit as the Corvette reached speeds of 100 mph. Carrion said he begged his friend to pull over after noticing a patrol car behind them. Escobedo lost control of the 2004 blue Corvette, crashed into a concrete wall, went into a spin and ended up hood-to-hood with Webb's patrol car, Carrion said. 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/D/DALLAS_GAY_CANDIDATE?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 4:43 PM EDT Dallas could elect its first gay mayor Dallas could elect its first gay mayor Australian gay bar can bar heterosexuals Russian police detain gay activists Gays flock to Fla. Panhandle for holiday Romney: I'm not intolerant of gays (AP) -- This conservative metropolis could become the nation's largest city to elect an openly gay mayor if a longtime city council member wins a runoff election later this month. Ed Oakley's candidacy is the latest indication that Dallas' reputation as a conservative stronghold is giving way to more diversity. The city is already home to several gay elected officials, including the sheriff. "Dallas is less and less the Dallas that people think it is," said Cal Jillson, a political science professor at Southern Methodist University. "And Dallas is less and less the Dallas that it used to be." In the mayoral race, Oakley and former construction company CEO Tom Leppert emerged from a crowded 11-candidate field that included another openly gay man and a transgendered woman. Oakley and Leppert will be the only candidates in the June 16 runoff. But if Oakley, 54, is on the edge of history, he doesn't talk about it. His sexuality hasn't figured prominently in the campaign. Oakley said his internal polling showed it had little impact on voters. "I have never made this an issue, a part of what I am or who I am or what I have done to represent the community," said Oakley, a small business owner. Dallas, with a population of 1.2 million, is home to a growing gay community with an estimated 120,000 lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgendered households. The city has nondiscrimination policies covering sexual orientation and gender identity and offers health insurance to the domestic partners of city employees, measures praised as progressive by local gay-rights activists. "I think some people don't realize that Dallas is very diverse: economically, ethnically, culturally," said Pete Webb, president of the Dallas Gay and Lesbian Alliance. That has helped mute any controversy about Oakley's sexuality in a state where two years ago voters approved a ban on gay marriage by a 3-to-1 margin. There also are other signals of political shifts. In November, Dallas County Democrats swept Republicans out of power, winning 42 judicial races and six countywide offices. Among the winners was District Attorney Craig Watkins, the first Democrat to hold the position in more than two decades. The public hasn't seemed interested in Oakley's sexuality, but voters also have been disinterested in the election itself. Only about 13 percent of registered voters turned out in the initial election. Leppert received fewer than 20,000 votes and Oakley fewer than 15,000. That has local gay activists hitting the pavement to support him. Jesse Garcia, president of the Stonewall Democrats of Dallas, said his group "has gone into our gay bars and stressed early voting." "We are very excited," Garcia said. "We have ... to galvanize the troops and let them know not only can we make history but we can keep Dallas progressive." The biggest city with an openly gay mayor is Providence, R.I., where Mayor David N. Cicilline leads a city of 177,000. San Diego, with a population of about 1.2 million, briefly had an openly gay mayor in 2005, when a councilwoman was appointed to the position after a former mayor resigned and his interim replacement was convicted of corruption. Oakley's supporters say the thrice-elected city council member has high name recognition among voters and a long history of involvement in city politics. He's been judged "as an incumbent member of the city council ... and not as a gay candidate," Jillson said. "I'm not discounting Oakley based on who he likes or doesn't like, and I don't think people view him being gay as limiting to his ability to make decisions," said Mark Jones, a businessman who was having lunch with black professionals and church leaders in South Dallas. "This is not a town where homophobia will affect people's decisions." 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/T/TUBERCULOSIS_INFECTION?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 4:42 PM EDT Parents of TB patient are 'in hell' (AP) -- The man infected with drug-resistant tuberculosis who set off an international health scare could be allowed outside of his isolated hospital room if a test for the bacteria is negative, a hospital official said Monday. The patient, Andrew Speaker, is being treated at the National Jewish Medical and Research Center. Two tests of his sputum have been negative, meaning they have not shown the presence of TB bacteria, and results of a third test were expected late Monday or Tuesday, hospital spokesman William Allstetter said in a statement. If the third is negative, Speaker, 31, would be considered "relatively noncontagious" and could be allowed brief escorted trips outside his room wearing a mask, Allstetter said. But he stressed that such a finding would not mean Speaker cannot transmit the disease, saying the bacteria could still grow in Speaker's lungs and sputum. Drug-resistant TB patients who do venture outside are kept far from patients and anyone else in the community so they pose no risk of infecting others. Earlier Monday, Speaker's parents and in-laws stressed in an interview on "Good Morning America" that he would never have traveled to Europe for his wedding and honeymoon if he thought he was contagious. "We're in hell and we want to get out of hell," said the man's father, Ted Speaker. Speaker's parents denied that their son was reckless. "We are not people of reckless behavior, nor is Andrew," said his mother, Cheryl Speaker. If he thought he was contagious, she said: "He would have been the first one not to go." Ted Speaker said he taped a meeting in which a doctor says three times that his son was not contagious though the doctors preferred that he not fly. The elder Speaker said he will release the tape at some point. While many people were outraged by Speaker's actions, his father didn't seemed worried when asked about possibly being served with a lawsuit over the case. "If they want to serve me go ahead," Ted Speaker said. "I am not at fault. My son is not at fault." Before leaving last month for Europe for his wedding and honeymoon, Speaker has said he was advised by Fulton County, Ga., health authorities that he was not contagious or a danger to anyone. Officials told him they would prefer he didn't fly, but no one ordered him not to, he said. Speaker was in Europe when he learned tests showed he had not just TB, but an extremely drug-resistant strain known as XDR. Despite warnings from federal health officials not to board another long flight, he flew home for treatment, fearing he wouldn't survive if he didn't reach the U.S., he said. The family said that a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention official told them the only way for him to get back to America from Italy would be to hire a private plane. But the parents said they are not rich and could not have easily afforded a private jet. "We work hard," said Betsy Cooksey, a school teacher and mother of Andrew Speaker's new bride, Sarah. "We're not in careers that are high paying." Speaker's father-in-law, Robert Cooksey, works for the CDC, where he specializes in tuberculosis and other bacteria. "It's the height of irony," he said of the situation. Robert Cooksey also reiterated that Andrew Speaker did not get the illness from him. Andrew Speaker was quarantined May 25, after his return from his honeymoon, in the first such action taken by the federal government since 1963. After being hospitalized in Atlanta, he was flown to Denver on Thursday for treatment. Speaker was taking antibiotics to battle a tennis-ball-size infection in his lung. Doctors said his treatment could include surgery to remove the infected tissue if the drugs don't work. Tests so far indicate Speaker's risk of spreading the infection are low, doctors said. Eleven people who were on flights with Speaker have tested negative for the disease, health officials in South Carolina said Monday. More than two dozen University of South Carolina Aiken business students were on an eight-hour flight to Paris with Speaker. (This version CORRECTS last graf to correct 11 tested were on 'flights,' instead of an eight-hour flight to Paris.) 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/V/VERMONT_SECESSION?SITE=IADES&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News From The Associated Press Jun 4, 2:39 PM EDT Vt. secession movement gains traction Vt. (AP) -- At Riverwalk Records, the all-vinyl music store just down the street from the state Capitol, the black "US Out of Vt.!" T-shirts are among the hottest sellers. But to some people in Vermont, the idea is bigger than a $20 novelty. They want Vermont to secede from the United States - peacefully, of course. Disillusioned by what they call an empire about to fall, a small cadre of writers and academics hopes to put the question before citizens in March. Eventually, they want to persuade state lawmakers to declare independence, returning Vermont to the status it held from 1777 to 1791. Neither the state nor the U.S. Constitution explicitly forbids secession, but few people think it is politically viable. "I always thought the Civil War settled that," said Russell Wheeler, a constitutional law expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C. If Vermont fought and won a war with the federal government, "then you could say Vermont proved the point. But that's not going to happen." Still, the idea has found plenty of sympathetic ears in Vermont, a left-leaning state that said yes to civil unions, no to slavery (before any other) and last year elected a socialist to the U.S. Senate. Supporters have published a "Green Mountain Manifesto" subtitled "Why and How Tiny Vermont Might Help Save America From Itself by Seceding from the Union." In 2005, about 300 people turned out for a secession convention in the Statehouse, and plans for a second one are in the works. A poll this year by the University of Vermont's Center for Rural Studies found that 13 percent of those surveyed support secession, up from 8 percent a year before. "The argument for secession is that the U.S. has become an empire that is essentially ungovernable - it's too big, it's too corrupt and it no longer serves the needs of its citizens," said Rob Williams, editor of Vermont Commons, a quarterly newspaper dedicated to secession. "We have electoral fraud, rampant corporate corruption, a culture of militarism and war," Williams said. "If you care about democracy and self-governance and any kind of representative system, the only constitutional way to preserve what's left of the Republic is to peaceably take apart the empire." Vermont, which was historically conservative, has evolved into one of the nation's most liberal states since the latter part of the 20th century, a tie-dyed bastion of countercultural dissent and New England self-reliance where folks wear their hearts - and their anti-war stickers - on their Subaru station wagon bumpers. Secession movements have a long history. Key West, Fla., staged a mock secession from America in the 1980s. In Vermont, the town of Killington tried to break away and join New Hampshire in 2004, and Hawaii, Alaska, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Texas all have some form of secession organizations today. The Vermont movement has been simmering for years but gained new traction because of the Iraq war, rising oil prices and the formation of several pro-secession groups. Secession supporters hope to have the question considered in March on Town Meeting Day, when voters gather to discuss state and local issues. Thomas Naylor, 70, a retired Duke University economics professor and author, wrote the manifesto and founded a secession group called Second Vermont Republic. His 112-page manifesto contains little explanation of how Vermont would make do without federal aid for security, education and social programs. Some in the movement foresee a Vermont with its own currency and passports, for example, and some form of representative government formed once the secession has taken place. Frank Bryan, a professor at the University of Vermont who has championed the cause for years, said the cachet of secession would make the new republic a magnet. "People would obviously relish coming to the Republic of Vermont, the Switzerland of North America," he said. "Christ, you couldn't keep them away." The Middlebury Institute, a Cold Spring, N.Y., think tank, hosted a North American Separatist Convention last fall in Burlington that drew representatives from 16 organizations. The group is co-sponsoring another conference in October in Chattanooga, Tenn. Of course, skeptics abound. "It doesn't make economic sense, it doesn't make political sense, it doesn't make historical sense. Other than that, it's a good idea," said Paul Gillies, a lawyer and Vermont historian. For now, the would-be secessionists are hoping to draw enough support to get the question on Town Meeting Day agendas. "We're normal human beings," said Williams, 39, a history professor at Champlain College. "But we're serious about this. We want people in Vermont to think about the options going forward. Do you want to stay in an empire that's in deep trouble?" 2005
