http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html?ex=1336449600&en=794fcef5a0a08a86&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html?ex=1336449600&en=5467f5e141712e18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html?ex=1336449600&en=2b309cad1fcd8ac8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer NYT Ortelius Maps Edition -- America Buy, sell or research a car. Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new in technology? Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html?ex=1336449600&en=f4bf4b2d59275fa1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Post a job online today! What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html?ex=1336449600&en=faa4d4f54af5150a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html?ex=1336449600&en=794fcef5a0a08a86&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html?ex=1336449600&en=5467f5e141712e18&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10clavicle.html?ex=1336449600&en=2b309cad1fcd8ac8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Collarbone&#8217;s Connected to Slimness - New York Times The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LET’S say a woman clocked a few hundred crunches a day, Stairmastered her bottom into a replica of J. Lo’s and avoided carbs so assiduously that the waiters at her regular restaurants knew not to bother with a breadbasket. If no one could see results of all of this exertion and deprivation, would it count? Skip to next paragraph Tony Cenicola/The New York Times The well-chiseled clavicle is in. And with that, styles showing deep necklines, like this Moschino dress, are highly coveted by women who brandish their collarbones as a sign of thinness. That is the conundrum posed by the spring’s most coveted fashion item, dresses that conceal as much as they reveal. At Bergdorf Goodman on a recent Saturday, waifish young women fingered trapeze dresses by designers like Diane Von Furstenberg and Vince. A cream-colored Moschino version stood on out from the body of a mannequin like a sphinx, the shoulders and upper chest peeking out of its oblong neck. “We did great with it,” a saleswoman said. As the rest of women’s bodies recede in spring fashions, the clavicles, or collarbones, and the upper chest between them, is rising to prominence. Toned shoppers who want to show off their self-discipline in the face of dessert are choosing dresses with a low, but not plunging neckline, a look that is transforming the area above the breasts into an unlikely new subject for women to obsess over. Some people think of it as an erogenous zone; others think it is noteworthy only as a barometer of whether a woman is at a healthy weight or has become too skinny. “I always want to show off my collarbone,” said Gabriella Morello, a Columbia sophomore who had just finished a class at the Equinox Fitness Club on the Upper East Side that included push-ups, chest presses, flys and other exercises for the upper chest. “I’ll buy clothes to show off that area. You don’t want just the scoop neck, you want the Chloé dress that crosses here,” she said, pointing to her clavicle. Why the new emphasis on a body part most women — and more men — have paid little attention to in the past? Credit a swing of the fashion pendulum, and a malaise over “Girls Gone Wild” style. Showing off your clavicle is “the opposite of showing your thong,” said Valerie Steele, director of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology Another reason is that prominent clavicles can be a signifier of skinniness. Sharply outlined collarbones say “Don’t let this tent dress fool you: Underneath it all, this girl can fit into a sample size.” “The clothing threatens to make you look overweight and so you need a certain body to undo that threat,” said Virginia Blum, a professor of English at the , who has written extensively on women and beauty. “In that clothing, one has to find a way of revealing the authentically thin body.” , a consultant for Equinox, said that when people lose weight, the bones and muscles of the chest area often become more visible. It is also an area whose prominence is unlikely to be enhanced surgically (at least for now). This region has been emphasized by the skinny celebrity acolytes of the stylist Rachel Zoe, including Nicole Richie and Keira Knightley. Their ubiquitous deep V-neck tops show off sometimes skeletal frames, and other actresses have taken their cue and sized down as well, to the point that the Internet teems with fashion and celebrity bloggers and message board posters carping about protruding A-list clavicles. After the Oscars and the Golden Globes this year, bloggers took actresses like Anne Hathaway and Naomi Watts to task for their “scary” and even “knobby” clavicles. When Kate Bosworth recently put on a few pounds, heralded the occasion with the headline “Kate’s Clavicle Comes Full Circle.” Courtney E. Martin, the author of “Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body” (Free Press, 2007), said that many of the girls and women she interviewed for her book “talked about how far their collarbone stuck out” with pride, as an indicator of their skinniness. Ms. Martin contends that a generation of young women raised after Title IX and the women’s movement pursue slender figures with the same rigor as they pursue admission to an When Jessica Braff, who works at an advertising agency in New York, lost 15 pounds in her freshmen year of college, the first thing she noticed was that her clavicles were more pronounced. “I loved it,” she said. She continues to wear clothes that show off her collarbones, which she calls the “easiest and least controversial expression of a kind of sex appeal.” Just a few years ago the clavicle and the region around it was considered a kind of anti-erogenous zone. One designer who has long emphasized the region is Consuelo Castiglioni, whose label, Marni, incorporates chest-baring necklines into tops and dresses. The brand has long been a favorite of women seeking clothing that isn’t expressly made to attract men, including skirts with bustles and tops that flare out to obscure any semblance of a waist. “I think it is clear from my designs that deep cleavages, tight silhouettes, visible tummies or behinds are not part of my aesthetic,” Ms. Castiglioni said in an e-mail message. “What I try to express is elegance and femininity and a more cerebral, hidden sensuality.” Perfect, then, for women who don’t want to look like they are trying to be sexy. Or like they are trying at all. In fact, this most passive-aggressive of body parts — it’s a lot harder to get a protruding clavicle than it looks — is the perfect focus for a generation that, according to a 2003 Duke University study, wants to appear “effortlessly perfect.” Women’s interest in protruding clavicles is reminiscent of their attempts to achieve the Linda Hamilton arms of the early ’90s — a signal to one another that they are superwomen. Which is why a backlash against the exposed and protruding clavicle is already in effect. The blogger diaryofamadfashionista has written about “the disturbing rise of the clavicle,” adding, “We women of Rubenesque dimensions must band together and DEMAND that fashion take note of bosoms, buttocks, legs, plump dimpled elbows, and all of those other beautiful touches that make a female, well, female.” Perhaps some men would agree. Suzanne Calo, an elementary school teacher in Hicksville, N.Y., is proud of her “bony clavicles,” especially now that she is pregnant and every other part of her body seems to have become bigger. “That’s my favorite area,” she said. Her husband, Anthony Calo, on the other hand, is ambivalent. “Honey, have you ever said anything about my clavicles?” she called out while on the phone. “You know, my collarbones?” There was a pause. “He shrugged,” she said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Vogue Plays Fairy Godmother FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi PULSE; The Polished Traveler FASHION; Recycling Along the Red Carpet: Did Somebody Say Knockoff? Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html?ex=1336449600&en=6f9d640b4f754f2c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer East Harlem Swimming Pool, 2004 Browse movie reviews from 1913. Find a world of reasons to go. Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or research a car. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10FOREVER.html	Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic - New York Times Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Whether in tidy stores in Southern California, above, or in the hectic setting of Manhattan, merchandise is plentiful. COLIBRI EVANS navigated the aisles of Forever 21 at the Beverly Center last week with a sure step and a shrewd eye. Her mother, Sasha Evans, was more circumspect, offering for Colibri’s approval a string of neo-hippie beads Joss Stone might have coveted. “It’s her job to say ‘Yes, No, Yes, No,’ ” Mrs. Evans said, nodding toward her daughter, a 29-year-old music producer. “She tells me what’s cool and what’s too young for me.” It was Mrs. Evans’s first visit to a store that at first glance seemed to cater exclusively to the sparkle gloss-and-cami set. All the same she was intent on finding “maybe a nice overshirt,” she said, “something summery that hides my questionable areas.” With Mother’s Day just over a week away, a trip to the cavernous fashion bazaar at the uppermost level of the mall promised to cement a bond. “For me it’s a way of our just being together, of spending some quality time with my mom,” Ms. Evans said. Bonding is only part of a larger emotional payoff for recreational shoppers like the Evanses, who throng the store, part of the rapidly expanding Forever 21 chain, giddy at the prospect of daily deliveries of fresh, trend-driven fashions at prices that undercut even those of its competitor H&M, across the corridor. By relentlessly chasing trends and catering to an ever-widening market — young women and matrons, men and toddlers — Forever 21 has positioned itself as a retail powerhouse, the American answer to fast fashion emporiums like the European-based Zara, Mexx and H&M. The privately held company has galloped ahead in recent years, doubling its number of stores to 400 since 2005. Retail analysts estimate sales have grown to more than $1 billion last year from about $640 million in 2005. “They are playing by a different set of rules,” said Howard Davidowitz, a New York retail consultant, partly by catering to entire families rather than focusing on teenagers, but also by rivaling competitors in scale. Forever 21 stores are typically 25,000 square feet, roughly five times that of many Anthropologie or Gap stores. Don and Jin Chang, the founders and owners of the chain, opened their first store on Figueroa Street in downtown Los Angeles in the mid-1980s. The small shop, aimed primarily at schoolgirls, proved successful enough that the Changs, who immigrated from South Korea, were able to add new stores on an average of every six months. By the early ’90s, Forever 21 was a significant mall presence. The purchase of Gadzooks, a Midwest clothing retailer, for about $33 million at auction two years ago placed the chain “in the land of the giants,” Mr. Davidowitz said. Last year the company opened its retail showpiece, a 40,000-square-foot store in Pasadena, Calif., offering women’s, men’s and children’s clothing, accessories and lingerie. Clearly the jewel in the family diadem, it is housed in a former Saks Fifth Avenue with silver candelabra posted at the door. The company also operates a Web site, and, as of this year, 17 free-standing For Love accessories stores. Mrs. Chang, who is in her 50s, cultivates an all-but-invisible profile. She declined to appear for a scheduled interview, dispatching Lisa Boisset, the company’s vice president for merchandise, to speak for her. Ms. Boisset discussed her boss, who appears in photographs as a trim woman with dark hair that swings well past her shoulders, with a born-again zeal. Her eyes appeared to well spontaneously as she talked about the Changs’ deep-rooted spirituality. The Changs’ Christian faith is telegraphed near the bottom of the stores’ trademark yellow shopping bags with the stamp, John 3:16, referring to a biblical passage. Ms. Boisset described the Changs as ever on the prowl for ideas and trends. While it takes a designer like several months to get clothes into stores after their debut on the runways, Forever 21 delivers interpretations of the same looks within six weeks. Among the stores’ hip offerings this month are a club-friendly white cotton corset trimmed in midnight blue lace ($19.80), a scarlet cotton swing jacket cropped well above the waist ($27.80), denim capri pants ($27.80) and a puff-sleeve hoodie sprinkled with tiny hearts ($17.80). The chain says it employs no designers, “just very savvy designer merchants,” Ms. Boisset said. Although these merchants’ skills are at the heart of Forever 21’s success in offering shoppers faithful adaptations of runway hits, the company declined to make them available for an interview. “Our design process is proprietary,” Ms. Boisset said. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FRONT ROW; No Hiding From Alice Roi CRITICAL SHOPPER; No Store Is a Hero to Its Valet ONLINE SHOPPER; A Narrow Window Into the Future If There's A Buck In It Somewhere Retail Stores and Trade Trademarks and Trade Names Economic Conditions and Trends Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10granny.html	The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny - New York Times The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Photographs by Michael Stravato for The New York times Angela Kim&#146;s baby-sitting routine: On Tuesdays her husband, Augustine, drops her off at a Houston airport. She&#146;s met at the curb in Dallas by her daughter, Andrea, and her son, Noah, 2. Then it&#146;s off to the hospital where Andrea works, where Mrs. Kim takes the wheel. She heads for Noah&#146;s preschool and after that, home for a nap. On Wednesday nights she makes the reverse commute. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ANGELA KIM spends two days a week baby-sitting for her 2-year-old grandson, Noah, while her daughter, Andrea, a doctor, works nine-hour hospital shifts. Only Mrs. Kim, 57, lives in Houston and her daughter and grandson live in Dallas — 250 miles away. This long-distance child care arrangement means that on Tuesdays Mrs. Kim wakes at 4:45 a.m. to catch a 6:30 a.m. Southwest Airlines flight to Dallas Love Airport, where her daughter and Noah pick her up at the curb. At the hospital, her daughter hops out of the car to make her 8 a.m. shift and Mrs. Kim slips into the driver’s seat. Then she and Noah drive to his preschool, and after that, home, where Mrs. Kim fills her grandson’s next two days with brown rice, seaweed and Konglish, a mix of Korean and English. On Wednesday night, Mrs. Kim does the trip in reverse, catching a 7:30 p.m. flight to the Houston airport, where her husband picks her up. Terri P. Tepper of Barrington, Ill., made a similar trek every week for a year to help care for her granddaughter so that her daughter could pursue her career. Beginning in 2001, Ms. Tepper flew to New York on Sundays and returned to Chicago on Thursdays. “It was cheaper than getting a nanny,” said Ms. Tepper, 64. The round-trip tickets, which her daughter paid for, cost between $190 and $230. “I actually saved them a lot of money,” Ms. Tepper said. Her daughter later made partner in her consulting firm. Even at a time when grandparents are more involved than ever in the lives of their children and grandchildren, the efforts of Mrs. Kim and Ms. Tepper are extraordinary. But many grandparents these days are making extreme efforts to help their children bridge the work-life divide. “To me, grandparents are like the family National Guard,” said Andrew J. Cherlin, a sociologist at who studies intergenerational issues. “They are ready to step in when there is a need, and as soon as that need is met, they are ready to leave active duty.” “In low-income families,” he continued, “it may be the grandmother down the street who helps out. In high-income families, it is the grandmother in a neighboring city who helps out.” Intercity commuting is just one way they provide that help. Grandparents are also taking time off from work, retiring early, moving to the United States from overseas or selling their home to be near grandchildren. The greater involvement results from a confluence of factors, including the financial burdens of child care and anxiety over the quality of care. But most notably it is influenced by a generation of grandparents who have the time and the financial wherewithal to pitch in. “This is the first generation where we have so many older people living long enough, being healthy enough and being affluent enough to provide these services on a large scale” since women entered the workplace in large numbers, Dr. Cherlin said. But the involvement cuts across the economic spectrum. According to the census, 19.4 percent of preschool children with working mothers were primarily entrusted to grandparents in 2002, the latest year for which there are statistics. Grandparents took charge more often than fathers (18.2 percent), day care (19 percent) or hired help (9 percent). In 1995, grandparents ranked third behind fathers and day care centers, at 15.9 percent. There are no figures on how many grandparents go to extremes, because they can afford to, to care for their children’s children. “We call them grandboomers,” said Amy Goyer, national coordinator for the Foundation Grandparent Information Center, which has noticed heightened interest in information and services for grandparents. “They have more disposable income. They may have planned better for retirement.” For example, Judy Chen of Seattle could afford to take a year off as a hospital researcher to move to the Bay Area to baby-sit to help her daughter, a corporate lawyer. Her career was better able to absorb the timeout, she said: She was close to retirement, but her daughter was on a fairly strict career track in her firm. “Compared with her job, I have to sacrifice a little bit,” Mrs. Chen said. Besides, she said, echoing a sentiment expressed in similar terms by other Asian and Latino grandparents interviewed, “I am a Chinese mother.” Stepping in — even moving in — is customary in cultures that stress intergenerational familial obligations. In Mrs. Chen’s case, her sense of obligation to her daughter trumps that to her husband, who was left home alone for a year. “He is lonely, but he has a job,” Mrs. Chen said. Mrs. Chen’s daughter and son-in-law were reluctant to hire a nanny, feeling uncomfortable with strangers raising their son. They said they also worry about day care, expressing a widely shared parental anxiety that was only heightened by a National Institutes of Health study published this year that found some evidence of increased behavior problems among sixth graders the more time they had spent in professional day care. Were it not for the help of her mother and mother-in-law, Andrea Kim said, she would have quit her residency rather than put Noah in day care two years ago. “I couldn’t bring myself to do it,” said Andrea Kim, who had already invested nine years in college, medical school and a residency at that point. “I had a lot of guilt.” And so she proposed the flying granny nanny scenario to her mother. “It was a joke when I first mentioned it, then it turned into a plea,” Andrea Kim said. Some weeks, her mother or her father, Augustine, 61, fly to Dallas, scoop Noah up at the airport curbside pickup and take him to Houston on the next flight. “It’s crazy, isn’t it?” said Mrs. Kim, the grandmother. “Somehow it works out.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Get Back to Work SHORTCUTS; Too Busy to Notice You're Too Busy Study Finds Rise in Behavior Problems After Significant Time in Day Care Teaching Movie Moguls to Wipe Drool Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10MOSS.html?ex=1336449600&en=f4bf4b2d59275fa1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It&#8217;s Her World, We&#8217;re Just Buying It - New York Times It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Librado Romero/The New York Times Shoppers flocked to Barneys on Wednesday for the American introduction of Kate Moss&#146;s clothing line. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 KATE MOSS pondered the question for a moment. Her shoulders heaved forward to hold up a wisp of fabric in a print of white barbed wire that could qualify as a dress only on her. She gestured beyond the colossal security guards in three-piece suits, the scruffy entourage, the D.J. girls with the cropped platinum hair wearing her little dresses, the waiters clearing the detritus of broken Champagne glasses left in their wake and the sea of gawking news-media types whirling in the background with notepads in hand. Then she said what she wanted: Skip to next paragraph Kate Moss at a party on Monday. “The world of Kate.” Ms. Moss touched the shoulder of Sir Philip Green, the British retail king who introduced the first collection of Kate Moss frocks at his Topshop chain in London last week and escorted her on Tuesday night to the seventh floor of Barneys New York for its American release. You’d have thought by the turnout that Queen Elizabeth had popped in for a white sale. “I never told you that, did I?” Ms. Moss said, clearly to the delight of Sir Philip. “The world of Kate!” The British press has not been entirely kind to Ms. Moss during her 19-year career. Setting aside for a moment the September 2005 news-media storm over images published in The Daily Mirror that indicated she had used cocaine, Ms. Moss’s debut as a designer was clobbered by the London papers. A sample headline from The Daily Mail last Wednesday: “Hysteria and the Great Kate Moss Con.” But her fast transformation from working-class model to burgeoning brand name may be the most telling example of the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. Even Ms. Moss, who has cultivated an unparalleled mystique as a model who rarely reveals what is happening behind her beautiful facade, was visibly overwhelmed by the turnout of more than 1,000 customers for the Topshop introduction in London. “I was a nervous wreck,” she said at Barneys. “I’ve always had a lot of attention to the way I dress. I don’t take that as a personal thing, like, ‘Oooh, they like me.’ They want a dress. Girls like clothes.” Yesterday morning, surprisingly, there were fewer than 100 women waiting outside the Barneys store on Madison Avenue when it opened at 10 a.m. At the front of the line, sisters Brittney and Danielle Hershkowitz, 18 and 16 respectively, had been there for four hours. “I think anything she wears, people want,” said Brittney Hershkowitz, standing before a window display that included a tiered black chiffon dress like the one Ms. Moss wore to the gala on Monday ($575). “She is very desirable, even after her drug scandal. I just don’t understand that. She’s supposed to be a role model for young children, so I’m shocked that so many people still stand behind her.” Still, Ms. Hershkowitz said she loved the model’s style and was intrigued by the paradox of her increasing success in the wake of the scandal. “Personally, I forgave her,” she said, “but I thought I was the exception.” So did many other women at Barneys, scooping up $20 henley tanks and floral chiffon baby-doll tops for $120. “That’s her own problem,” said Jane Ko, 31, a jewelry designer in Manhattan. “It’s more about her style for me. She has a magic touch. No matter what she wears, it’s fabulous.” Ms. Moss’s problems may have humanized her in the minds of a public insatiable for celebrity gossip and yet sympathetic to the scrutiny under which celebrities must live. In Ms. Moss’s case, rising above the controversy has become part of her appeal, or perhaps an element of the brand. When Simon Doonan, the Barneys creative director, created an unintended stir by playfully describing Ms. Moss’s democratic appeal in The New York Post as “a working-class slag from a crap town, like me,” a British T-shirt company was selling “working-class slag” T-shirts for £14 (about $28) at PEOPLE want a piece of anything that has Kate Moss’s name on it,” said Mickey Boardman, a columnist for Paper magazine, who was at the Barneys event, having his picture taken against a wall covered with cardboard cut-out images of Ms. Moss’s face. “She really is a rock star. She makes me want to take drugs and smoke, and I hate smoking. She just looks glamorous all the time.” Later that night at the Waverly Inn, Ms. Moss gave a hint that she is well aware of the power of her image. As she swept past the table of a mischievous diner who had been to her party, he held up one of the Kate Moss masks to his face. “Oh no!” she screamed, leaning in to reference a film that questions the power of identity and fame. “Being John Malkovich! Being John Malkovich!” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Is There A Place for Olivier Theyskens? Trademarks and Trade Names Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Natasha Calzatti for The New York Times Models at a Forever 21 store in Pasadena, Calif., display trends that appeal to both children and adults. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic By RUTH LA FERLA Trends are served fresh daily at Forever 21, the clothing retailer growing like a weed near you. It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Kate Moss released her collection at Barney’s last week, exemplifying the current power of notoriety to sell clothes. The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny By JENNIFER 8. LEE Some affluent retirees don’t mind dropping in by air to baby-sit. The Woman No Hat Could Tame In a world of bold fashion, Isabella Blow spoke the loudest. Obituary: Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness This season’s hot accessory: a prominent clavicle. All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. More Skin Deep Articles: Blogging for Truth and Beauty Whose Face Is It, Really? Charlotte Moss, an interiors concept store arranged over four stories of an Upper East Side town house, is staged to resemble the designer’s own home. Take Me to Your Designer Philippe Starck, the French designer who is consulting as art director for Richard Branson’s development of Virgin Galactic spacecraft, is now designing pared-down spacesuits. The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Are one-on-one yoga classes effective physical therapy? A New Attitude for the Hip The fanny pack: it’s not just for Michelin guides. Slide Show: The New Fanny Pack No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Finding a hearty English muffin (for a fuss-free breakfast). Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. Art Review | 'Poiret: King of Fashion' What to Wear to a Revolution The Metropolitan Museum of Art’s sumptuous survey of the designs of the French couturier Paul Poiret will transform your understanding of the origin of modern fashion. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Looking to buy a new car? Post a job online today! Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What movie should you see? Photos, fine art, books and more. Get the latest business news The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10BLOW.html	The Woman No Hat Could Tame - New York Times The Woman No Hat Could Tame Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Isabella Blow stopped traffic with her outrageous getups. She was a friend to many in the fashion world, including the milliner Philip Treacy, right, and Hedi Slimane, at left. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 ISABELLA BLOW, the English eccentric and sorcerer of talent who died this week, was a completely implausible figure. You could not explain her and you could not reason with her. She was incredibly bright on the subject of fashion and rarefied tastes, a fact she wore on her sleeve and on her head. She loved a bustle, a corseted waist and a spectacular hat. And not for her the mushy-pea variety, the Ascot bonnet. Skip to next paragraph Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her party headgear included an octopus hat, with a lobster necklace. A horned creation for a do at Madame Tussaud&#146;s in London. Bill Cunningham/The New York Times Her hats were the big-game kind, trophies of her wit and imagination: a veiled set of antlers, a jewel-encrusted lobster, a sailing ship, a pheasant. Her more exotic choices of headgear could be attributed to an aesthetic link with her paternal grandmother, Lady Vera Delves Broughton, an explorer and hunter, who claimed to have supped on a tribesman in Papua New Guinea. “She wasn’t strictly a cannibal,” her granddaughter pointed out. But try to remind Izzy, as she was called, during one of her periodic financial crises that even aristocratic eccentrics had to occasionally go out and earn a living, and she would laugh her deep honking laugh and say, “Oh, honey...” Although Izzy worked regularly as a fashion editor, at different times for British Vogue, The Sunday Times and Tatler, and intermittently as a consultant to companies like Swarovski, she had, in a sense, no clear role. And that was a problem for her. “Nobody knew how to quantify her talent,” said her friend Daphne Guinness, whose great-grandfather knew Ms. Blow’s grandmother. She was definitely the catalyst to the designer Alexander McQueen and the milliner Philip Treacy, her all-consuming belief in their talent that of a patron. Though, as Ms. Guinness said: “She could ill afford to be that. People took it for granted that because she came from a certain type of background she had money. She didn’t have that kind of support, though she could spend her last penny helping someone.” Michael Roberts, the fashion director of Vanity Fair, took on Ms. Blow as his assistant at Tatler in the mid-1980s and remained close to her until the last months of her life. Recalling her discovery of Mr. McQueen, in the early ’90s, Mr. Roberts said: “She rang me up and said, ‘You’ve got to see this guy’s clothing.’ Then she dragged me off to a basement in Piccadilly, a smelly basement. But she was absolutely right.” In both appearance and expectations she belonged very much, one felt, to a different time. “She was the most interesting person I ever met,” Mr. Treacy said this week in The Guardian. Though English newspapers and magazines typically have small budgets, Ms. Blow invariably stayed at the most expensive hotels. “She went over budget because she didn’t have any conception of budget,” said Jonathan Newhouse, who oversees the Condé Nast magazines in Europe and Asia. As Ms. Guinness said, “She had that kind of extravagant, ’30s idea of money.” She traveled with numerous pieces of luggage, including hatboxes. Recalling a trip they made together to Kuwait for a photo shoot, Ms. Guinness said: “We were in Terminal 4 at Heathrow. I’m not someone who fades into the background, either, but Izzy looked like a highwayman.” She had on a cape and tricorn. Although Ms. Blow was an exceptionally cultivated woman, at ease with a baroness or a shopgirl, she advanced toward things with a kind of willful cluelessness. In Kuwait, oblivious of Islamic laws, she put models in bikinis. “Suddenly people came out of nowhere with guns at us,” Ms. Guinness said. “She was so nonplussed.” For a cameo appearance in Wes Anderson’s “Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou,” she fretted, according to her friend Ronnie Newhouse, that she would be nervous and asked one of the actors if he had ever “done this kind of thing before.” It was Bill Murray. But it was difficult for Ms. Blow to find a home in a world she influenced. She was upset that Mr. McQueen didn’t take her along when he sold his brand to Gucci, though they remained good friends. “She functioned outside the corporate world,” Ms. Guinness said. “Once the deals started happening, she fell by the wayside. Everybody else got contracts, and she got a free dress.” It may be that she didn’t know how to ask for a position, Ms. Guinness said. “But getting that kind of acknowledgment would have given her esteem. She poured all of that esteem into other people, but had none of her own.” In the last year, Ms. Blow suffered from serious depression, attempting suicide at least twice, according to her friends. Last May she jumped from a highway overpass, breaking both legs. She remained, in a sense, valiantly Izzy, pointing out to her friends that she had been dressed to the nines, and in her hospital room smoking inside a cupboard, “as if somebody wouldn’t notice it,” Ms. Guinness said. While the Newhouses took care of many of her medical bills, and her friends did what they could do to help her, she became more and more remote, convinced that she would end up as a bag lady. Nothing could make her see the beauty in things the way she once had, turning the fashion world on its ear. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Isabella Blow, Flamboyant Discoverer of Fashion Talent, Dies at 48 Mad As A Hatter's Muse Review/Fashion; This is Paris. No Giggling, Please. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 12) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/fashion/10skin.html?ex=1336449600&en=faa4d4f54af5150a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse - New York Times All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 NO strangers are we to multitasking; it was only a matter of time before we demanded our makeup do the same. These days, sticks, pencils and compacts can perform multiple beauty duty without dominating the purse — or the wallet. Skip to next paragraph Jamel Toppin for The New York Times Smashbox, Benefit and Stila (compact) all sell makeup that can be used on eyes, cheeks and lips. Skin Deep: Whose Face Is It, Really? Skin Deep: Blogging for Truth and Beauty For a while the two-in-ones made some noise: Vincent Longo, Stila, Lorac and Smashbox offered liquid stainers or creamers for both lips and cheeks. While the stainer gave cheeks a flushed glow, it added just-bitten color to lips. But that wasn’t enough. Enter three-in-one makeup, wands and sticks made to be worn on lips, cheeks, eyes and even the shoulders and neck. “Movable color is having a popular moment because of new technology and modern formulations,” said Jeanine Recckio, of Mirror Mirror Imagination Group, which forecasts beauty trends. “The colors and consistency is more forgiving than heavy makeups of the past.” Nars was one of the first, in 1997 introducing the Multiple, which it billed as “the original all-in-one, cream-to-powder, multipurpose makeup stick.” The stick can be used to highlight, sculpt and warm eyes, cheeks and lips. At $36.50 and with 12 shades, when is the last time a product tried to accomplish so much? In the last few months three new products arrived: Rush Hour ($20), by Benefit, a slim, oil-free stick, promises an “instant makeover” for eyes, lips and cheeks; 3-of-a-Kind Twist-Up Stick ($3.59), by Wet n Wild; and e.l.f. All Over Cover Stick ($1), which at two inches tall, is also a space saver. Multitaskers appear to be selling. More than 100,000 wands of Rush Hour have been sold since mid-January, exceeding Benefit’s expectations, according to Benefit’s founders. The Multiple is consistently one of Nars’s best-selling products, said Kimberley Thomas, Nars’s vice president for North America sales. “Women want to simplify the makeup application process,” said Trish McEvoy, whose Essential Pencil ($20), advertised as a lipstick, blusher and overall highlighter, is also a top seller. Certainly, the two- and three-fer products are cost-effective. A shadow ($21), blush ($25) and lipstick ($23) from Nars can easily cost more than $65. And customers seem to find them convenient and time-saving. “It’s about practicality,” said Rebecca McGuire, 32, a branding consultant whose career often requires her to attend events at the last minute. “I need something that’s compact but works everywhere.” She said she prefers Nars Multiple St. Barts shade: “I love that I’ve found one product that makes me look pretty and presentable without feeling as if I’m covered in makeup.” Yet it’s difficult enough to find one color you love for one facial area, let alone one that works in multiple spots. And, said James Boehmer, Nars’s international lead makeup stylist: “With one color you take the chance of looking monochromatic and flat. It’s not the most exciting thing you can do with your makeup.” But a good color — Mr. Boehmer prefers Multiple’s Portofino — that is used well “can give a luminescent finish” to lips, cheeks and eyes, he said. “That’s a lot of get from one stick.” Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. SKIN DEEP; Beware the Afterglow Shades of Truth: An Account Of a Kabul School Is Challenged SKIN DEEP; New Hope at the Beauty Counter: Bling in a Jar THE REMIX; The JetÃ© Set Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus SUPPORT SYSTEM; For New Mothers, a Priceless Dose of Community Like the Edwardses, Some Use Work When They Must Fight Serious Illness Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus SUPPORT SYSTEM; For New Mothers, a Priceless Dose of Community Like the Edwardses, Some Use Work When They Must Fight Serious Illness Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Rumors Fly on Microsoft and Yahoo World Business Briefing | Europe: Small Step in News Search Dispute Google Calls Viacom Suit On YouTube Unfounded Google Seeks Clearer Path to State Data Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Rumors Fly on Microsoft and Yahoo World Business Briefing | Europe: Small Step in News Search Dispute Google Calls Viacom Suit On YouTube Unfounded Google Seeks Clearer Path to State Data Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population not to be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Looking to buy a new car? Looking for a job? What movie should you see? Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Find a world of reasons to go. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population not to be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Looking to buy a new car? Looking for a job? What movie should you see? Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Find a world of reasons to go. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus SUPPORT SYSTEM; For New Mothers, a Priceless Dose of Community Like the Edwardses, Some Use Work When They Must Fight Serious Illness Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus SUPPORT SYSTEM; For New Mothers, a Priceless Dose of Community Like the Edwardses, Some Use Work When They Must Fight Serious Illness Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population not to be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Buy, sell or rent a home. Post a job online today! Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Get the latest business news Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population not to be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Buy, sell or rent a home. Post a job online today! Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Get the latest business news Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Rumors Fly on Microsoft and Yahoo World Business Briefing | Europe: Small Step in News Search Dispute Google Calls Viacom Suit On YouTube Unfounded Google Seeks Clearer Path to State Data Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Rumors Fly on Microsoft and Yahoo World Business Briefing | Europe: Small Step in News Search Dispute Google Calls Viacom Suit On YouTube Unfounded Google Seeks Clearer Path to State Data Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 20) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 20) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Looking for a job? Photos, fine art, books and more. Get the latest business news Looking to buy a new car? Buy, sell or rent a home. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Looking for a job? Photos, fine art, books and more. Get the latest business news Looking to buy a new car? Buy, sell or rent a home. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new in technology? Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new in technology? Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Love the Op-Ed columnists?  Try TimesSelect free for 14-days. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Looking to buy a new car? Post a job online today! Which gadget is getting all the buzz? What movie should you see? Find a world of reasons to go. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Looking to buy a new car? Post a job online today! Which gadget is getting all the buzz? What movie should you see? Find a world of reasons to go. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Post a job online today! Buy, sell or rent a home. Continuous coverage of business news. Find a world of reasons to go. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Post a job online today! Buy, sell or rent a home. Continuous coverage of business news. Find a world of reasons to go. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html?ex=1336708800&en=d7185f1fd722d83a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html?ex=1336708800&en=286978c0586fdf78&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nite.html	Forever Huggy - New York Times A Night Out With John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times Liev Schreiber at a table at Haveli with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and his niece Nora Connolly. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 TO Uncle Sam, he’s Isaac Liev Schreiber. To his mother, he’s Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, Huggy for short. To the masses, he’s the actor shacking up with Naomi Watts, who is pregnant with their child. Trust the tabloids to tell you if the couple a) are engaged, b) are getting married this weekend! c) were married last week or, d) are breaking up on Thursday. Minutes after a matinee performance last Sunday of “Talk Radio,” the Broadway revival that stars Mr. Schreiber, he signed Playbills outside the Longacre Theater, then stepped into an S.U.V. with his mother, Heather Schreiber, and two of her friends. “Huggy Buggy Pinchy Winchy, will you give Ruby your autograph?” Ms. Schreiber asked on behalf of one friend. “It’s for my grandchildren,” Ruby Janis added to justify the request. “Ruby, I’ve painted your house,” Mr. Schreiber said. “What’s funny about the autograph thing: I don’t know how to write in cursive.” In jeans and a navy blazer, Mr. Schreiber, 39, was folded into the back seat for the ride to Haveli, an Indian restaurant in the East Village. He is 6-foot-2, so his neck was at a 45-degree angle and his knees were squished, but he seemed elsewhere. Actually, he sort of was. He said it takes a while to extricate himself from the skin of Barry Champlain, the play’s shock-jock with the mouth of venom. At Haveli, Mr. Schreiber’s group was joined by his half-brother Max Connolly and Mr. Connolly’s daughter, Nora, and his mother’s cousin Emmy Collins. Over samosa and fritter appetizers, they spoke of Mr. Schreiber’s many attempts to quit smoking (failures, all) and who would win the Tony Award for best actor (“My son,” Ms. Schreiber said. “Frank Langella,” Mr. Schreiber said. The nominations, anyhow, will be announced on Tuesday). They also discussed impending fatherhood (Ms. Watts is due in August). Baby names were suggested: “Sacco and Vanzetti.” “Queen Mab.” “Mega Watts-Schreiber.” They moved on, rapid-fire: “Huggy, I hear these onions are an aphrodisiac,” said Prema Pleva, another friend. Ms. Collins wondered, “Are you getting married? I read it in The Post.” “The latest is we’re already married,” Mr. Schreiber said. “You’d tell me if you were getting married!” Ms. Schreiber admonished. “Maybe,” her son said coyly. After dinner, Mr. Schreiber headed uptown for a party honoring one of his teachers at the Yale School of Drama. But first: an hour in Midtown traffic. “This is what a night out with me is like, sitting in traffic,” Mr. Schreiber said. At the fete, Mr. Schreiber, class of ’92, sipped Champagne. One by one, the Yalies descended. Conversation went something like this: Partygoer: “The show is going well?” Partygoer: “When are you guys due?” Broadway star: “Aug. 2.” Then it looped. The same questions, ad nauseum. Far from the giant light display honoring Wesley Fata, a dance teacher who was retiring after 32 years, Mr. Schreiber finally began to relax. Still, he looked as if he wanted to go home and doze off in front of the TV. Which, after watching a song-and-dance number at the party, is just what he did. Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THEATER REVIEW; The Mouth That Roars, With the Soul That Crumbles THEATER; The Larynxes That Invaded Broadway Summertime, and It's War And More War in the Park THEATER REVIEW; After Dark, When Fair Is Foul and War Still Hell Next Article in Fashion & Style (5 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html?ex=1336708800&en=dcebf80ecc86b565&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Buy, sell or rent a home. Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new on Broadway? Browse movie reviews from 1913. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13nimoy.html	Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission - New York Times Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Leonard Nimoy with pictures from his &#147;Shekhina Project.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 BEFORE we begin, let’s get one thing out of the way: Yes, Leonard Nimoy is more than happy to do the Vulcan salute, the gesture that launched a thousand spaceships. He does so easily, effortlessly: palm outward, fingers extended, the index and middle finger smashed together, the ring finger and pinky touching, the thumb sticking out on its own. Skip to next paragraph Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times Leonard Nimoy&#146;s &#147;Full Body Project&#148; features nude obese women. “People ask me all the time,” Mr. Nimoy said, carrying saucers of coffee and tea into his art-filled living room off Central Park West. He placed them next to galleys of his forthcoming photography book, which sat near a copy of “Carnal Knowing: Female Nakedness and Religious Meaning in the Christian West,” by Margaret R. Miles, and a folder of news clippings on obesity. “You see what I have here, about the health guidelines for models?” he asked, pointing a long, tapered finger toward the file. The basso profundo voice was unmistakable, his words occasionally clipped with his native Boston accent. “They now have to have at least a certain weight to qualify,” Mr. Nimoy added. He looked pleased. This is a subject that speaks to him. He knows that he is an unlikely champion for the size-acceptance movement; body image is a topic he never really thought about before. But for the last eight years, Mr. Nimoy, who is 76 and an established photographer, has been snapping pictures of plus-size women in all their naked glory. He has a show of photographs of obese women on view at the R. Michelson Galleries in Northampton, Mass., through June; a larger show at the gallery is scheduled to coincide with the November publication of his book on the subject, “The Full Body Project,” from Five Ties Publishing. The Louis Stern Fine Arts gallery in Los Angeles and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston have acquired a few images from the project. A few hang at the Bonni Benrubi Gallery in New York. (Their explicitness prevents the images from being reprinted here.) These women are not hiding beneath muumuus or waving from the bottom of the Grand Canyon à la Carnie Wilson in early Wilson Phillips videos. They are fleshy and proud, celebrating their girth, reveling in it. It is, Mr. Nimoy says, a direct response to the pressure women face to conform to a Size 2. “The average American woman, according to articles I’ve read, weighs 25 percent more than the models who are showing the clothes they are being sold,” Mr. Nimoy said, his breathing slightly labored by allergies and a mild case of emphysema. “So, most women will not be able to look like those models. But they’re being presented with clothes, cosmetics, surgery, diet pills, diet programs, therapy, with the idea that they can aspire to look like those people. It’s a big, big industry. Billions of dollars. And the cruelest part of it is that these women are being told, ‘You don’t look right.’ ” Mr. Nimoy, who divides his time among homes in New York and Los Angeles and on Lake Tahoe, in California, admits that before he began this project, it had never occurred to him that beauty might be culture driven, that a fat body in Africa is treated quite differently from one in the United States. “In some cultures their weight is a sign of affluence: their husbands can afford to feed them well,” he noted. His enlightenment came about eight years ago, when he had been showing pictures from his Shekhina series — sensual, provocative images of naked women in religious Jewish wear — at a lecture in Nevada. Afterward, a 250-pound woman approached him and asked if he wanted to take pictures of her, a different body type. He agreed, and she came to the studio at his Tahoe house. She arrived with all sorts of clothes and props, “as if she were playing a farmer’s wife in a butter commercial,” he said. His wife, Susan, who was assisting him, said, “No, we want to shoot nude.” So the model removed her clothing and lay down on the table. At first Mr. Nimoy was very nervous, he said. “The nudity wasn’t the problem,” he said, “but I’d never worked with that kind of a figure before. I didn’t quite know how to treat her. I didn’t want to do her some kind of injustice. I was concerned that I would present this person within the envelope of an art form.” But soon he relaxed into it, lulled by the clicking of the camera and the woman’s comfort with her body. He placed some of the shots in various exhibitions, and they invariably garnered the most attention. “People always wanted to know: ‘Who is she? How did you come to shoot her? Why? Where? What was it all about?’ ” Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Fashion & Style (2 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13rapture.html?ex=1336708800&en=d6b940203252ac11&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	A Downtowners&#8217; Club for Poets on a Curfew - New York Times A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Michael Falco for The New York Times A reading by Edgar Oliver. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 IN the annals of New York’s postpunk, polysexual downtown bohemia, celebrated haunts are best known by their memorable evenings. The night at the Pyramid in 1984, when the Red Hot Chili Peppers first played the East Coast and shocked the dive’s drag queens with wardrobes limited to artfully placed socks. Or the final marathon, in December 2000, of the cult party Jackie 60, which reigned on Tuesdays in the 1990s at Mother, the club-cum-salon in the meatpacking district. Skip to next paragraph Michael Falco for the New York Times A sample of the audience and the attitude at the Rapture Cafe. If the Rapture Cafe — which opened last December at 200 Avenue A, between 12th and 13th streets — joins that pantheon of clubs, its opening-night party may well have been the first evening there to attain such lofty status. When the old-school demimonde of the Lower East Side heard that the cafe was being managed by Brian Butterick, whose drag alter ego, Hattie Hathaway, had been a fixture at places like Pyramid and Mother, 200 people turned out for a night of catered booze (pre-liquor license), burlesque performances and even an appearance by the former Blondie frontwoman Debbie Harry, 61, whom many consider the godmother of the downtown scene. (The cafe takes its name from Blondie’s hit song.) “It was a little bit of a family reunion, that’s for sure,” said the video artist Rob Roth, 37, who attended the party with Ms. Harry as well as Johnny Dynell and Chi Chi Valenti, the longtime husband-wife D.J.-promoter team that owned Mother. “It just felt great, like something was going to happen.” Mr. Dynell, a longtime East Villager, says the evening “was like old-home week” for a certain downtown crowd that has partied and made art and music together as far back as the late 1970s. Since then, the 2,200-square-foot cafe-bookstore-performance space, which sits on a stretch thick with shabby-chic hipster bars, has become a hangout for many of the neighborhood’s longtime writers and performers. It is a crowd that, in years past, socialized mostly in loud smoky black-box clubs below 14th Street. These days, this group is turning to Rapture’s kinder, gentler morning-until-midnight atmosphere, with its wheat-colored plaster walls, light wood bookshelves (stocked with everything from the latest Amy Sedaris book to magazines like Heeb and Mother Jones), pastry-stocked coffee bar and abundance of lighting from airy-looking Japanese lanterns. “It’s a warm, cozy, friendly place where all the girlfriends gather, but they’re not drunk,” said Justin Bond, the Kiki DuRane of the camp cabaret duo Kiki and Herb. Other Rapture habitués include Amy Ray of the Indigo Girls, the poet Ira Cohen and the performance artists Penny Arcade and Shelly Mars. “Rapture offers the possibility of cafe society, which has basically been blown out of New York,” said Ms. Arcade, 56, a longtime Lower East Side resident. That’s all fine. But given the atmosphere in the neighborhood — skyrocketing rents, an influx of students from nearby , an invasion of affluent co-op and condo dwellers — can the Rapture Cafe survive as a clubhouse for the area’s remaining bohemians? Joe Birdsong, the cafe’s owner, believes that it can, in part because it already enjoys a ready-made clientele of locals who have outgrown the bar and club scene but still want to hang out and make or see art with their friends. There is less pressure to be drunk or high in a place like Rapture, said Mr. Birdsong, 37, giving its patrons “a certain lightness that comes after spending so much time in the dark.” All the same, he said he hopes the liquor license, acquired in March, and rentals for private parties will draw enough income to allow him to stay afloat without charging for readings and performances. Mr. Birdsong, a former gym manager and go-go dancer at East Village gay bars, appears to have the support of his landlord, who said he is charging him below-market rent, hoping to preserve the area’s quirky, artistic feel by keeping small independent businesses around. But such landlords are rare in the increasingly high-tone East Village, where an average studio walk-up rents for $1,700 and a one-bedroom goes for up to $2,500, according to Trina Harrison, a Corcoran Group Real Estate broker who handles rentals in the area. So far, Rapture seems to be crossing the divide, filled as it is most days with both old neighborhood stalwarts and the laptop-bearing 20-somethings who ride the L train in from Brooklyn. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PARENTING; Poet, Mother, Editor, Wife From Arabic to Hebrew Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13love.html?ex=1336708800&en=81519f245a6ff48f&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	My First Lesson in Motherhood - New York Times My First Lesson in Motherhood Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 I SAW the scar the first time I changed Natalie’s diaper, just an hour after the orphanage director handed her to me in a hotel banquet room in Nanchang, a provincial capital in southeastern China. Skip to next paragraph Despite the high heat and humidity, her caretakers had dressed her in two layers, and when I peeled back her sweaty clothes I found the worst diaper rash I’d ever seen, and a two-inch scar at the base of her spine cutting through the red bumps and peeling skin. The next day, when the Chinese government would complete the adoption, also was Natalie’s first birthday. We had a party for her that night, attended by families we’d met and representatives of the adoption agency, and Natalie licked cake frosting from my finger. But we worried about a rattle in her chest, and there was the scar, so afterward my husband, Matt, asked our adoption agency to send the doctor. We had other concerns, too. Natalie was thin and pale and couldn’t sit up or hold a bottle. She had only two teeth, barely any hair and wouldn’t smile. But I had anticipated such things. My sister and two brothers were adopted from Nicaragua, the boys as infants, and when they came home they were smelly, scabies-covered diarrhea machines who could barely hold their heads up. Yet those problems soon disappeared. I believed Natalie would be fine, too. There was clearly a light on behind those big dark eyes. She rested her head against my chest in the baby carrier and would stare up at my face, her lips parting as she leaned back, as if she knew she was now safe. She would be our first child. We had set our hearts on adopting a baby girl from China years before, when I was reporting a newspaper story about a local mayor’s return home with her new Chinese daughter. Adopting would come later, we thought. After I became pregnant. But I didn’t become pregnant. And after two years of trying, I was tired of feeling hopeless, of trudging down this path not knowing how it would end. I did know, however, how adopting would end: with a baby. So we’d go to China first and then try to have a biological child. We embarked on a process, lasting months, of preparing our application and opening our life to scrutiny until one day we had a picture of our daughter on our refrigerator. Fourteen months after deciding to adopt, we were in China. And now we were in a hotel room with a Chinese doctor, an older man who spoke broken English. After listening to Natalie’s chest, he said she had bronchitis. Then he turned her over and looked at her scar. Frowning, he asked for a cotton swab and soap. He coated an end in soap and probed her sphincter, which he then said was “loose.” He suspected she’d had a tumor removed and wondered aloud if she had spina bifida before finally saying that she would need to be seen at the hospital. TWO taxis took us all there, and as we waited to hear news, I tried to think positive thoughts: of the room we had painted for Natalie in light yellow and the crib with Winnie the Pooh sheets. But my mind shifted when I saw one of the women from the agency in a heated exchange in Chinese with the doctors, then with someone on her cellphone. We pleaded with her for information. “It’s not good,” she said. A CT scan confirmed that there had been a tumor that someone, somewhere, had removed. It had been a sloppy job; nerves were damaged, and as Natalie grew her condition would worsen, eventually leaving her paralyzed from the waist down. Control over her bladder and bowels would go, too; this had already begun, as indicated by her loose sphincter. Yes, she had a form of spina bifida, as well as a cyst on her spine. I looked at my husband in shock, waiting for him to tell me that I had misunderstood everything. But he only shook his head. I held on to him and cried into his chest, angry that creating a family seemed so impossible for us, and that life had already been so difficult for Natalie. Back at the hotel, we hounded the women from the agency: Why wasn’t this in her medical report? How could a scar that size not be noticed? It was two inches long, for God’s sake. They shook their heads. Shrugged. Apologized. And then they offered a way to make it better. Elizabeth Fitzsimons, who lives in San Diego, is a reporter for The San Diego Union-Tribune. Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Working on Overhaul, Russia Halts Adoption Applications A Chinese Orphan's Journey To a Jewish Rite of Passage Raising a Child With Roots in China In an Adoption Hub, China's New Rules Stir Dismay Families and Family Life Next Article in Fashion & Style (3 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/fashion/index.html	Fashion & Style - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; There is a broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film, reflecting the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population to not be defined by their disability. Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission The former Mr. Spock, Leonard Nimoy, has become an unlikely champion for body image through his photography. My First Lesson in Motherhood How would we manage her care? Yet how could we leave her behind? Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! The world isn’t big enough for two Ashley Parkers. A Night Out With Hanging out with Liev (Huggy) Schreiber of the Broadway play, “Talk Radio.” A Downtowners’ Club for Poets on a Curfew Where have all the bohemians gone on the Lower East Side? A third-generation deliveryman of seltzer water extends his once exclusive residential clientele to a nouveau burger joint in Manhattan. Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny It’s Her World, We’re Just Buying It Critical Shopper: Accumulate This Online Shopper: No Nook Unbuttered, No Slice Unturned Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Skin Deep: All-in-Ones: Bring on the Tiny Purse The Collarbone’s Connected to Slimness Fine Points: A New Attitude for the Hip Correction: Up, Up and ... Never Mind It's all about extreme grilling, good-humored ice-cream, bachelor pads, the must-haves and more. Plus, go behind the scenes in the Go to T: Style Magazine » Pulse | Dresses That Do Mean a Thing This season, dresses are a swinging affair, with silhouettes that float far from the body and high above the knee. Amy Talkington and Robert Adams By GRETEL C. KOVACH The couple’s wedding on April 21 was in a pocket park in Dallas named for her grandparents, Wallace Savage, a former mayor of that city, and Dorothy Savage. He Puts Lids on His Excitement The artist Toland Grinnell has an obsession for containers. Bags this spring are popping up in tulip red colorings. Cathy Horyn goes backstage at shows and design houses, and inside the minds of designers. Supporting the King of Fashion Photos from the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Benefit Gala "Poiret: The King Of Fashion." Images from "Poiret: King of Fashion" at the Metropolitan Museum's Costume Institute. Gear Test With Nancy Hobbs, Trail Racer By SARAH BOWEN SHEA Purists don’t dare race in trail running shoes. Enter trail racing shoes with stickier, firmer soles and less weight than everyday trail running shoes. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Looking for a job? Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? Photos, fine art, books and more. Continuous coverage of business news. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13angel.html	Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! - New York Times Hey, Pop Idol, Surrender My Name! Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 HOW do you compete with an Angel? Skip to next paragraph Ashley Parker Angel of the boy-band O-Town and MTV fame. He is now starring on Broadway in &#147;Hairspray&#148; and doesn&#146;t see sharing the same name as a problem. An Ashley Parker Angel, to be exact. As in the boy-band sex symbol and teen icon who is also my famous Internet doppelgänger and, most certainly, my higher-achieving alter ego. I discovered this one night when I was searching for something I had written, and plugged my name into Google. (Let this be a cautionary tale for those who self-Google.) I was surprised when the first page of hits turned up fan clubs in my honor, a fully-functional MySpace page and a rather comprehensive Wikipedia entry. Oh, they shouldn’t have, I thought. Then I looked closer. Everything was devoted to another Ashley Parker — to Ashley Parker Angel, 25, heartthrob extraordinaire, with a mop of sun-bleached hair, aqua-blue eyes and high and rosy cheeks that slope down into a perfectly cleft chin. Google turned up his hit singles, his glossy fashion shoots, his German fan clubs. The points I had scored for my high school basketball team? The articles I had written for my college newspaper? The two decades I had also been alive? You had to scroll to Goooooooooooooogle to find even a mention. “See,” I explained to friends, “If you just go to Google, Page 14 ...” Of course, they teased me: “Hey, Mrs. Angel.” Or, “I saw your boy on MTV last night.” We were the same age, but in every other way, I was the opposite of the preternaturally perky he-Angel: female, dark-haired, dark-humored, occasionally Goth and perpetually awkward. I fumed. I complained. And then I accepted it. Short of changing my name to Ashley Parker Devil, there wasn’t much I could do. But recently, when I was working out of an office in the theater district, where the other Ashley Parker was playing the lead in “Hairspray,” an opportunity emerged for an Ashley vs. Ashley face-off. It was the brainstorm of a well-intentioned theater publicist I had called about a profile I was working on. “This isn’t business related,” he interrupted, “but I just have to tell you. Your name is Ashley Parker, and the lead of ‘Hairspray’ is also named Ashley Parker ...” “Angel.” I finished the sentence for him. “Yes, Ashley Parker Angel,” he said. “So you’re Ashley Parker, and he’s Ashley Parker.” The publicist arranged for a ticket. “You simply must meet him,” he said. “I put down ‘Ashley Parker,’ and then next to your name I put a note: ‘Not Ashley Parker.’ Because, you know, you have the same name.” He giggled. I didn’t. Not only had Ashley Parker Angel co-opted my identity, but he also had done great things with it. While I was piddling around in college, Ashley Parker Angel had borrowed $800, hopped onto a plane to Las Vegas and earned a spot on the ABC reality show “Making the Band.” Then, horrifyingly, they had actually made the band, O-Town, with him in it. By the time I moved to New York to dabble in unemployment, Ashley Parker Angel was on his way to his own MTV reality show, “There and Back,” and an appearance on the network’s “Total Request Live.” And now here he was playing the dashing Link Larkin in “Hairspray,” an art-imitates-Ashley role that almost mirrors his own boy-wonder-to-pop-idol life story. Worse, here I was, following him through a squealing throng outside a West 52nd Street theater to a wine bar around the corner. “Hey, great name,” he said, grinning. I hoped he didn’t think I was going to be won over so easily. I was there on business, after all, and I had come with a plan: Over drinks I was going to try to wrest back my identity. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy. While I had a few admirers (Hi, Mom! Hi, Dad!), it wasn’t exactly like I had thousands of fans dying to touch my hand and take my picture. “So,” I began, “do you ever go by your initials? Just A.P.A.?” “I’m starting to, more and more,” he said. I explained that acronyms were very in these days, but he seemed noncommittal, so I tried another approach. What about adding a second middle name? Something divine — Heaven, Cherub, Rapture, maybe. “I like that,” he said, still grinning. “The four names — that could be a way to make me stand out.” But then he hesitated: “My name already sounds like a porn star.” I tried again. I’d read that he was actually born Ashley Ward Parker, and had taken on “Angel,” his stepfather’s last name, when was adopted by him at age 3. “What about bringing back the Ward?” “No, I don’t think so,” he said. “It sounds so ‘Leave It to Beaver.’ ” This isn’t about you, I wanted to shout at him. Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LINK BY LINK; 93,754,333 Examples of Data Nonchalance MySpace to Add Restrictions To Protect Younger Teenagers Online Throngs Impose a Stern Morality in China Computers and the Internet Next Article in Fashion & Style (4 of 21) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/fashion/13disabled.html?ex=1336708800&en=96997a770de21bee&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	diabilities - New York Times Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Stephanie Diani for The New York Times Baring her prosthetic leg for the world to see, Sarah Reinertsen hits the floor at Holly&#146;s in Los Angeles. Ms. Reinertsen was a contestant on &#147;The Amazing Race.&#148; Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Steve Ruark for The New York Times Kylee Haddad uses her prosthesis as a canvas. WHEN Josh Blue won NBC’s “Last Comic Standing” last season, he did so with riffs like this: “My right arm does a lot of crazy stuff. Like the other day, I thought someone had stolen my wallet.” It’s funny only if you know that Mr. Blue has cerebral palsy. The public image of people with disabilities has often hinged on the heroic or the tragic. But Mr. Blue, 28, represents the broader portrait of disability now infusing television and film. This new, sometimes confrontational stance reflects the higher expectations among many members of the disabled population that they be treated as people who happen to have a disability, rather than as people defined by disability. “What we’re seeing is less ‘overcoming’ and more ‘just being,’ ” said Lawrence Carter-Long, the director of advocacy for the Disabilities Network of New York City, which last year started a film series, “disTHIS: Disability Through a Whole New Lens,” celebrating unconventional portrayals of the disabled. “More people are saying, ‘This is who I am. If you have a problem with it, that’s your problem,’ ” he said. Because the entertainment media often function as a bellwether of changing attitudes, the drive to expand beyond the stereotypes is particularly visible on television. The heart-wrenching movie of the week and fund-raising telethons striving for cures have given way to amputees rock climbing on reality shows like “The Amazing Race” and doing the jive on “Dancing With the Stars.” Sitcoms and crime shows have jumped onto the bandwagon, too: an actor who is a paraplegic, for instance, depicts a member of the casino surveillance team on “Las Vegas.” “It used to be that if you were disabled and on television, they’d play soft piano music behind you,” said Robert David Hall, a double amputee who plays a coroner on “CSI.” “The thing I love about ‘CSI’ is that I’m just Dr. Robbins.” In film, too, tragic stories starring able-bodied actors, like “Million Dollar Baby,” are being countered by depictions featuring the disabled themselves, from the wheelchair rugby jocks of the 2005 documentary “Murderball” to the 2005 Special Olympics romp, “The Ringer,” by Peter and Bobby Farrelly. Hollywood’s embrace of a franker depiction of disabilities is mirrored in everyday life in trends such as the jettisoning, by both child and adult amputees, of cosmetic covers for prosthetic legs. Instead, prosthetics experts say, many patients wear their legs openly, often customizing them with designs that are flaunted like tattoos. “Some people say, ‘That’s really cool’ and some people don’t act very nice,” said Kylee Haddad, 40, a mother of two from Walkersville, Md., who decorates her prosthetic leg with palm trees, fish and the American flag. Ms. Haddad, whose right leg was amputated below the knee in 2003 after a car accident, said she has no problem wearing shorts when she goes shopping. Neither does she shy from removing the prosthesis in order to swim at the neighborhood pool. She said people gawk and some have even tapped her on the shoulder to ask her to put her leg back on. She said she’s been told, “It is upsetting my child.” But she refuses to hide. “You either accept me as I am,” she said, “or you don’t have to look at it.” Jillian Weise, 25, a teacher and doctoral student at the , released a poetry book this year to undermine what she called “the stereotype of the disabled as asexual” and “to try to get away from the idea of the disabled as freak.” She titled it “The Amputee’s Guide to Sex” and filled it with deeply personal verses. “You trace the scar along my spine, and I imagine what it must feel like,” reads one poem. Ms. Weise, who was born with a rare disease that led to the amputation of one leg below the knee when she was 11, said that in the United States “there’s a history of don’t look, don’t stare, just ignore the disability.” “I’m hoping that there’s a middle ground, that this is just another kind of difference,” she said. The hunger to be regarded like anyone else means even negative portrayals can be welcome. When Simon Cowell of “American Idol” teased a Special Olympics athlete with a mental disability about his weight during this year’s televised auditions, he was widely criticized for having crossed a line. Special Olympics International fired off an open letter. It the show for ribbing the contestant, as it does nearly everyone. “Whether on the stage of ‘American Idol’ or on the field of competition for Special Olympics, people with intellectual disabilities don’t want to be pitied,” the group’s statement read. Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. COPING; Eight Struggling Actors: A Story of Hope ZSA ZSA GABOR IN A DISPUTE OVER MOVING OF HANDICAPPED Next Article in Fashion & Style (1 of 21) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
