http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11gonzales.html?ex=1336536000&en=f3dc17837d0f0fa0&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — House Democrats pressed Attorney General at a hearing on Thursday to provide specifics about why federal prosecutors had been dismissed, but he stuck to his past assertions that, although ineptly handled, the dismissals were justified and appropriate. Democrats at the hearing of the House Judiciary Committee tried but failed to elicit greater clarity about the specific reasons for removing each prosecutor. Mr. Gonzales offered little new information, repeating that his role in the dismissals had been limited. Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the panel, seemed to voice the most frustration over Mr. Gonzales’s testimony, saying, “Tell us, just tell us how the U.S. attorney termination list came to be, and who suggested putting most of these on the list and why.” Mr. Gonzales repeated his assertion that the list represented “the consensus recommendation of the senior leadership of the department.” “O.K., in other words, you don’t know,” Mr. Conyers said. Mr. Gonzales signaled at the outset of the hearing that there would be few bombshells. He said that since he testified three weeks ago at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, “My feelings and recollections about this matter haven’t changed.” Representative Linda T. Sanchez, the California Democrat who has led the House inquiry, expressed frustration over the inability of the Justice Department to fully explain the dismissals. Ms. Sanchez said Congressional investigators had interviewed most of the Justice Department officials involved, but, she said, “not one has been able to recall or take responsibility for how and why these U.S. attorneys were added to the firing list.” on the House committee were more supportive of Mr. Gonzales than their counterparts in the Senate, where some Republicans were scathingly critical after his testimony there. Several House Republicans asked no questions about the dismissals, instead praising Mr. Gonzales’s performance or quizzing him on issues like illegal , copyright policy, computer crime and terrorism. of Texas, the ranking Republican on the panel, said, “As we have gone forward, the list of accusations has grown, but the evidence of genuine wrongdoing has not.” Mr. Smith added, “If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues.” Mr. Gonzales at times expressed contrition for his mishandling of the dismissals, including his earlier misstatements about the process, but insisted that the action was appropriate. “What I have concluded is that although the process was not as rigorous or as structured as it should have been, and while reasonable people might decide things differently, my decision to ask for the resignations of these U.S. attorneys was not based on improper reasons and therefore the decision should stand.” Several Democrats questioned Mr. Gonzales’s credibility. Representative , Democrat of New York, asked how people could have confidence in his management when he was unable to answer questions about the specific United States attorneys and why they were dismissed. “Look at the record of the department,” Mr. Gonzales said, expressing a flash of annoyance that broke with his otherwise resolute demeanor. “Look at the record of the department.” “That doesn’t answer the question,” Mr. Nadler replied. Several Democrats asked Mr. Gonzales about news reports that a ninth United States attorney, Todd P. Graves, had been pushed to resign his post in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Graves said in interviews that he had been forced out by Justice Department officials in March 2006. Mr. Gonzales denied that Mr. Graves had been removed as part of the process supervised by his former chief of staff, D. Kyle Sampson, which resulted in the removal of eight other prosecutors. But Mr. Graves was asked to resign after his name was placed on a Justice Department list in January 2006. It is not publicly known why Mr. Graves was asked to resign, but he had disagreed with a voting rights lawsuit that Justice Department officials wanted to bring in his district against the State of Missouri. Democrats viewed the lawsuit as a Republican effort to remove the poor and elderly from the voting rolls. Mr. Gonzales said he had consulted Thursday with officials at the department’s civil rights division and had been told that the case had nothing to do with the decision to seek Mr. Graves’s resignation. “We aren’t aware of any concerns that existed in that office with respect to this particular case” he said. After Mr. Graves refused to agree to the litigation, a lawsuit was authorized by Bradley J. Schlozman, the acting chief of the civil rights unit in Washington, a division of the department that Democrats have accused of advocating Republican causes. Later, Mr. Gonzales named Mr. Schlozman as Mr. Graves’s temporary successor. Mr. Schlozman has since returned to Justice Department headquarters. OUSTED PROSECUTORS: NEWS ANALYSIS; On a Very Hot Seat With Little Cover And Less Support 'NOTHING TO HIDE,' GONZALES INSISTS BEFORE HEARING For Gonzales, More Records, And Questions Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11dallas.html New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Mark Graham for long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock, as seen across wetlands in the Trinity River project. 2007 DALLAS — The $69 margarita at N9NE Steakhouse in Ross Perot Jr.’s $3 billion Victory Park development is not the most expensive drink in town, but it is one way of toasting the better times that some see ahead for a long-struggling Big D. Skip to next paragraph Mark Graham for Laura Miller is leaving office. “This is our version of Rodeo Drive,” said Mr. Perot, son of the software entrepreneur and 1992 presidential candidate, showing off his Riviera of boutiques on 75 acres of hotel towers, condos and clubs alongside his American Airlines Center, the sports arena near downtown, in what was, until 1998, a polluted brownfield of rusting railyards and industrial plants. Now the question is who will lead a resurgent Dallas. After five turbulent years, Laura Miller, perhaps the nation’s only investigative reporter turned big-city mayor, is not running again, setting off a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. In an interview at City Hall, Ms. Miller, 48, voiced pride at the forest of construction cranes, the flowering of the arts district, and her partly successful fight against new coal-fired power plants in Texas. But she said: “I’m done with politics. I don’t particularly like it.” It was especially difficult, she said, for someone who had made her living “skewering” people to join them later at the council table. Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago. If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son. She might also have faced a tough re-election fight. For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public. Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise. “It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.” But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development. No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing. “It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters. The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation. The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well. Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.” Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting. Invites Other Mayors to Town to Discuss Gun Crime Heady Days of J.R. and Landry Are History in Humbled Dallas National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Effort To Recall Mayor Falls Short Ex-Journalist Wins Runoff for Dallas Mayor complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html?ex=1336536000&en=e917b4ee7a21e653&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/politics/11romney.html Romney Works to Put Skeptics&#8217; Doubts to Rest Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest David Lieneman for presidential hopeful Mitt Romney greets potential supporters in Clear Lake, Iowa. 2007 AMES, Iowa, May 10 — Bart Pals, a county chairman for ’s presidential campaign, had been given talking points to use when he introduced the former Massachusetts governor at an event in northern Iowa on Wednesday. Skip to next paragraph Times Topics: Mitt Romney The latest political news from around the nation. But Mr. Pals chose to depart from the script to assert that Mr. Romney’s shift in recent years against was not a “flip-flop” but the result of a “thoughtful moral process.” He also told the crowd in Clear Lake that he was not turned off by Mr. Romney’s Mormonism. “My concern is that he has a moral compass,” said Mr. Pals, 48, “and his moral compass is pointing in the same direction as mine.” Mr. Pals’s conclusion may have been encouraging to Mr. Romney. But the fact that he felt compelled to defend Mr. Romney when it comes to abortion and religion only underscored the challenge Mr. Romney faces as he courts conservative voters in politically significant states like Iowa. In national polls, Mr. Romney is still sometimes in single digits. But his more immediate problem, given his need to do well among Republican primary voters in the first contests early next year, may be the continued concerns of many conservative Christians about his religion — some evangelicals view Mormonism as something akin to a cult — and his relatively recent shift from supporter of abortion rights to opponent. Mr. Romney is also encountering questions about whether, as a governor with little foreign policy experience, he has sufficient national security credentials to reassure voters of his ability to be commander in chief at a time when the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorism are overriding issues. Even his signature achievement as governor, the creation of a health care program intended to cover nearly every resident in Massachusetts, has left some conservatives wondering about Mr. Romney’s commitment to small government. Still, the increasingly unsettled state of the Republican field has given him his best chance yet to make progress. He received generally positive reviews in the first Republican debate last week. He has shown he can raise substantial sums of money to finance his bid. He has put together an experienced staff and has begun an effort to reach out to evangelicals in Iowa, South Carolina and other states where social conservatives are an influential voting bloc. And he has an opportunity to capitalize on the problems afflicting his main competitors, former Mayor of New York and Senator “There are times when you have updrafts, and there are times when there are downdrafts,” Mr. Romney said in an interview. “This is an updraft for me.” In particular, the renewed focus on Mr. Giuliani’s longstanding support for abortion rights, combined with suspicions among some conservatives about Mr. McCain’s ideological reliability, has given Mr. Romney an opening to convince them that he is their true champion in this election. His crowds of several hundred on Wednesday in Iowa were among the largest he has had, and interviews with several social conservative leaders suggested he is making some inroads. But there were also indications that he still faces skepticism. Tamara Scott, who heads the Iowa chapter of Concerned Women for America, a conservative Christian group, said the focus among many evangelicals seems to be moving beyond theological differences. “When people come up and just want to discuss it with you, his flip-flopping is more what I hear,” Ms. Scott said. Even among evangelicals who say they are at least willing to consider Mr. Romney, support in many cases appears to be shaky. Larry Gordon, senior pastor of Cornerstone World Outreach in Sioux City, said his initial instinct was to rule out Mr. Romney because of his faith. But after his son, who is also a pastor at the church, came away impressed by Mr. Romney after an event, he began to examine him more closely. “If nobody better comes along, I’m going to vote for him,” Mr. Gordon said. “But I’m hoping somebody better comes along.” It is still not clear whether the problems that Mr. Romney, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani face might tempt former Senator , the former House speaker, into the race, or allow another of the declared Republican candidates a shot at the nomination. But for now, Mr. Romney is trying to take full advantage of a moment in which many seem willing to shop around. As evidence that his campaign is gaining strength, Mr. Romney and his aides cited a recent New Hampshire poll that showed him leading in the state, although rival campaigns have challenged the accuracy of the survey. They also pointed to a new poll in Michigan, another early state, where Mr. Romney grew up, which shows him leading there as well. He made his first appearance last week on “The Tonight Show” with . Mr. Romney is also on the cover of the new Time magazine, scheduled to hit newsstands on Friday, and will be the subject of a feature on “60 Minutes” on Sunday. He tweaked his stump speech this week in what appeared to be a fresh attempt to distinguish himself from Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani on social issues. In Iowa, Mr. Romney introduced to audiences the metaphor of a three-legged stool, reflecting what he described as core conservative Republican principles: “strong military, strong economy, strong families.” “In my view, you’ve got to talk about all three for the Republican stool to stand,” he said. “Two won’t hold it up.” Beyond trying to gain an advantage on social issues, he is emphasizing that he would have a muscular approach to national security. He highlights his successful business career to make a case that he knows how to manage the economy. And he is taking a conservative stance on , opposing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, an issue that could prove troublesome for Mr. McCain, who worked for such a route in the Senate last year. Mr. Romney mounted a new advertisement recently in Iowa, New Hampshire and on national cable networks that plays up his call to increase the size of the military. Another commercial that features him wielding his veto pen in Massachusetts continues to run nationally. Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani have not yet rolled out any commercials. In his continued courtship of evangelical voters, Mr. Romney’s campaign is dispatching Mark DeMoss, an evangelical publicist whose clients include the Rev. Franklin Graham, the son of the Rev. , and Jay Sekulow, a prominent evangelical activist and lawyer, to meet with conservative Christian leaders in South Carolina, Iowa and elsewhere. Mr. DeMoss had his first meetings with evangelical pastors in Greenville, S.C., on Wednesday. The pastors appeared receptive and some were even enthusiastic, he said, but most continue to hold back from public support. “The idea of an evangelical supporting a Mormon for president, it’s a new idea,” he said. “This scenario has never presented itself before. And because of that, and because of the theological issues that some people have raised, I think a lot of evangelicals are just approaching this very cautiously.” Mr. Romney’s basic strategy is to try to use strong showings in the early voting primary states, many of which have large numbers of conservative voters, to slingshot him to the front of the Republican field. In a first step in that strategy, he and his aides are focusing on the straw poll here in August. It is a largely symbolic but potentially important contest that Mr. Giuliani has yet to decide whether to compete in. On Wednesday, Mr. Romney repeatedly called on audience members to attend the straw poll, which is “in 97 days,” adding with a wink, but “who’s counting?” Accuses Sharpton of a Bigoted Remark Set to Debate, G.O.P. Contenders Ponder What to Say About Bush Romney Says Rivals Changed Minds, Too McCain Replaces His Finance Director Just Before Official Tour to Declare Candidacy Presidential Election of 2008 complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11dallas.html?ex=1336536000&en=0212812bb6c94bc2&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Mark Graham for long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock, as seen across wetlands in the Trinity River project. 2007 DALLAS — The $69 margarita at N9NE Steakhouse in Ross Perot Jr.’s $3 billion Victory Park development is not the most expensive drink in town, but it is one way of toasting the better times that some see ahead for a long-struggling Big D. Skip to next paragraph Mark Graham for Laura Miller is leaving office. “This is our version of Rodeo Drive,” said Mr. Perot, son of the software entrepreneur and 1992 presidential candidate, showing off his Riviera of boutiques on 75 acres of hotel towers, condos and clubs alongside his American Airlines Center, the sports arena near downtown, in what was, until 1998, a polluted brownfield of rusting railyards and industrial plants. Now the question is who will lead a resurgent Dallas. After five turbulent years, Laura Miller, perhaps the nation’s only investigative reporter turned big-city mayor, is not running again, setting off a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. In an interview at City Hall, Ms. Miller, 48, voiced pride at the forest of construction cranes, the flowering of the arts district, and her partly successful fight against new coal-fired power plants in Texas. But she said: “I’m done with politics. I don’t particularly like it.” It was especially difficult, she said, for someone who had made her living “skewering” people to join them later at the council table. Ms. Miller’s exit leaves 12 candidates, including one under federal investigation, vying for mayor in the election on May 12. A June 16 runoff is likely. Upping the ante, a petition war is raging over the future of one of Dallas’s biggest public works projects ever — a 10,000-acre greenbelt along the Trinity River that could hold a dozen Central Parks, along with a toll road that critics say is larger than ever envisioned when voters approved a $246 million bond issue nearly a decade ago. If anything, said Ms. Miller, a champion of the project, battling for her legacy would be reason to run for a second full four-year term. (She finished the last year of her mayoral predecessor, Ron Kirk, when he left to run, unsuccessfully, for the But Ms. Miller, a mother of three, explained her decision by saying, “I’m not running because my 16-year-old daughter sat me down and said, ‘If you’re running again — and it looks like you’re running again, Mom—you will be throwing the towel in on all of us.’ ” With that, Ms. Miller said, “she started crying and I started crying — and that’s why I’m not running again.” She and her husband, Steve Wolens, a former state representative, also have a younger daughter and son. She might also have faced a tough re-election fight. For all the gloss of a Victory Park, there is also Deep Ellum, the once-vibrant blues district that has proved a graveyard of renewal hopes — “It’s just looking worse and worse all the time,” said Gianna Madrini, a fashion videographer who heads the neighborhood association — and a federal lawsuit is challenging the city’s restrictions on feeding the homeless in public. Ms. Miller’s retirement, announced last year, threw the race for mayor wide open, drawing among others, three business executives, Thomas C. Leppert, David Samuel Coats and Max Wells, widely regarded as front-runners; and a four-term councilman, Don Hill, a leader of African-Americans in city government who often clashed with Ms. Miller but now offers grudging praise. “It’s not how you start but how you finish,” Mr. Hill said, “and she’s finishing better than she started.” But Mr. Hill, the mayor pro tem, has been under the cloud of a federal investigation for two years since tapes leaked from an undercover operation revealed a developer’s negotiating a $50,000 payoff with a lawyer and contractors seeking Mr. Hill’s support for a commercial development. No charges have been brought against Mr. Hill, who was not heard on the tapes made public and who has denied any wrongdoing. “It’s been two years after the furor, the circus and the pressure, and I would like for them to clear my name,” Mr. Hill said in an interview at his campaign headquarters. The F.B.I. has not commented on the investigation. The corruption inquiry and leaks have deepened longstanding tensions among blacks in South Dallas, which has historically been shortchanged on development projects, schools and city services. Resentments have festered since Ms. Miller pressured the city manager to fire Dallas’s first African-American police chief after a scandal involving a drug-frame-up in 2003 before mobilizing the City Council to oust the city manager as well. Ms. Miller said that proved her dedication to good government. “If I had been a politician,” she said, “I never would have touched it.” Gretel C. Kovach contributed reporting. Invites Other Mayors to Town to Discuss Gun Crime Heady Days of J.R. and Landry Are History in Humbled Dallas National Briefing | Southwest: Texas: Effort To Recall Mayor Falls Short Ex-Journalist Wins Runoff for Dallas Mayor Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html?partner=rssnyt National News - All Headlines PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Firefighters struggled today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island. Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail The men, charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix, were arrested on Tuesday after a 15-month investigation. New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Twelve candidates are in a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Many conservative Christians are concerned about Mitt Romney’s religion and his recent shift on abortion rights. Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales stuck to his past assertions that the firings were appropriate. Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion U.S. Charges a Leading Chicago Political Figure With Fraud and Bribery Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Civil Liberties Advocate Named Ombudsman for Texas Youth Man Convicted in 1993 Restaurant Killings Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser Texas: Concern Over Buzzards Delays ‘Body Farm’ North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning Photograph California: Plan to Privatize Lottery California: Conviction in Secrets Case California: Ill Woman Is Dropping Marijuana Battle Washington: Whistle-Blower Ordered to Be Reinstated Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie By LAURA M. HOLSON The Treasury Department sent a letter to Michael Moore, a provocative filmmaker, to investigate whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba. The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Knoxville Zoo Displays Albino Alligator Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Study Renews Debate Over Sows in Crates Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Get the latest business news Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11moore.html U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 10 — , the provocative filmmaker who has made a career out of skewering automakers, gun enthusiasts and the Bush administration, is being investigated by the Treasury Department over a trip he made to for his new film, “Sicko.” Skip to next paragraph Michael Moore is being investigated by the government. This month the department sent a letter to Mr. Moore saying it was investigating whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba when he accompanied sick workers seeking free medical care as part of a documentary on America’s health care industry. Treasury Department representatives did not return phone calls seeking comment. On Mr. Moore’s Web site, the film’s producer, Meghan O’Hara, called the department’s actions a “politically motivated investigation.” The ailing workers shown traveling to Cuba in the film had helped clean up the World Trade Center site after the Sept. 11 attacks. The letter from the Treasury Department asked for detailed including evidence that Mr. Moore was employed as a journalist. Journalists can secure permission to go to Cuba. The government also sought the name and address of the travel agent who made the reservations, and receipts, and the names and addresses of all of those who went on the trip. News of the letter was first reported by The Associated Press. Chris Lehane, who was press secretary to Vice President and has been retained by the Weinstein Company, the film’s distributor, said the Treasury Department had been aware of the trip for a long time. “We feel comfortable with the terms with which we went to Cuba,” Mr. Lehane said. , a co-founder of the company, said the timing of the letter suggested an attack by the Bush administration meant to discredit the film. But Mr. Weinstein said: “They are only causing more publicity. It’s so ironic. They should let sleeping dogs lie.” He said he was concerned that the Treasury Department would try to prevent the part of the movie shot in Cuba from being shown. “We have the resources to fight,” he said. “Sicko” is set to open at the on May 19 and nationwide on June 29. If past behavior portends the future, Mr. Moore and his backers will most likely use the government inquiry to the film’s advantage. In May 2004, Mr. Moore and his agent, Ari Emanuel, went public with complaints that the Walt Disney Company was refusing to distribute the film “Fahrenheit 9/11,” causing a ruckus in Hollywood and Washington. The movie earned $220 million at the box office worldwide. TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. 9/11' on Cuba's Prime Time Judge Upholds Plan for Return Of Boy to Cuba complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html?ex=1336536000&en=64815775ee883add&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/politics/11romney.html?ex=1336536000&en=da1fb47ed795d3f7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Romney Works to Put Skeptics&#8217; Doubts to Rest Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest David Lieneman for presidential hopeful Mitt Romney greets potential supporters in Clear Lake, Iowa. 2007 AMES, Iowa, May 10 — Bart Pals, a county chairman for ’s presidential campaign, had been given talking points to use when he introduced the former Massachusetts governor at an event in northern Iowa on Wednesday. Skip to next paragraph Times Topics: Mitt Romney The latest political news from around the nation. But Mr. Pals chose to depart from the script to assert that Mr. Romney’s shift in recent years against was not a “flip-flop” but the result of a “thoughtful moral process.” He also told the crowd in Clear Lake that he was not turned off by Mr. Romney’s Mormonism. “My concern is that he has a moral compass,” said Mr. Pals, 48, “and his moral compass is pointing in the same direction as mine.” Mr. Pals’s conclusion may have been encouraging to Mr. Romney. But the fact that he felt compelled to defend Mr. Romney when it comes to abortion and religion only underscored the challenge Mr. Romney faces as he courts conservative voters in politically significant states like Iowa. In national polls, Mr. Romney is still sometimes in single digits. But his more immediate problem, given his need to do well among Republican primary voters in the first contests early next year, may be the continued concerns of many conservative Christians about his religion — some evangelicals view Mormonism as something akin to a cult — and his relatively recent shift from supporter of abortion rights to opponent. Mr. Romney is also encountering questions about whether, as a governor with little foreign policy experience, he has sufficient national security credentials to reassure voters of his ability to be commander in chief at a time when the war in Iraq and the threat of terrorism are overriding issues. Even his signature achievement as governor, the creation of a health care program intended to cover nearly every resident in Massachusetts, has left some conservatives wondering about Mr. Romney’s commitment to small government. Still, the increasingly unsettled state of the Republican field has given him his best chance yet to make progress. He received generally positive reviews in the first Republican debate last week. He has shown he can raise substantial sums of money to finance his bid. He has put together an experienced staff and has begun an effort to reach out to evangelicals in Iowa, South Carolina and other states where social conservatives are an influential voting bloc. And he has an opportunity to capitalize on the problems afflicting his main competitors, former Mayor of New York and Senator “There are times when you have updrafts, and there are times when there are downdrafts,” Mr. Romney said in an interview. “This is an updraft for me.” In particular, the renewed focus on Mr. Giuliani’s longstanding support for abortion rights, combined with suspicions among some conservatives about Mr. McCain’s ideological reliability, has given Mr. Romney an opening to convince them that he is their true champion in this election. His crowds of several hundred on Wednesday in Iowa were among the largest he has had, and interviews with several social conservative leaders suggested he is making some inroads. But there were also indications that he still faces skepticism. Tamara Scott, who heads the Iowa chapter of Concerned Women for America, a conservative Christian group, said the focus among many evangelicals seems to be moving beyond theological differences. “When people come up and just want to discuss it with you, his flip-flopping is more what I hear,” Ms. Scott said. Even among evangelicals who say they are at least willing to consider Mr. Romney, support in many cases appears to be shaky. Larry Gordon, senior pastor of Cornerstone World Outreach in Sioux City, said his initial instinct was to rule out Mr. Romney because of his faith. But after his son, who is also a pastor at the church, came away impressed by Mr. Romney after an event, he began to examine him more closely. “If nobody better comes along, I’m going to vote for him,” Mr. Gordon said. “But I’m hoping somebody better comes along.” It is still not clear whether the problems that Mr. Romney, Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani face might tempt former Senator , the former House speaker, into the race, or allow another of the declared Republican candidates a shot at the nomination. But for now, Mr. Romney is trying to take full advantage of a moment in which many seem willing to shop around. As evidence that his campaign is gaining strength, Mr. Romney and his aides cited a recent New Hampshire poll that showed him leading in the state, although rival campaigns have challenged the accuracy of the survey. They also pointed to a new poll in Michigan, another early state, where Mr. Romney grew up, which shows him leading there as well. He made his first appearance last week on “The Tonight Show” with . Mr. Romney is also on the cover of the new Time magazine, scheduled to hit newsstands on Friday, and will be the subject of a feature on “60 Minutes” on Sunday. He tweaked his stump speech this week in what appeared to be a fresh attempt to distinguish himself from Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani on social issues. In Iowa, Mr. Romney introduced to audiences the metaphor of a three-legged stool, reflecting what he described as core conservative Republican principles: “strong military, strong economy, strong families.” “In my view, you’ve got to talk about all three for the Republican stool to stand,” he said. “Two won’t hold it up.” Beyond trying to gain an advantage on social issues, he is emphasizing that he would have a muscular approach to national security. He highlights his successful business career to make a case that he knows how to manage the economy. And he is taking a conservative stance on , opposing a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, an issue that could prove troublesome for Mr. McCain, who worked for such a route in the Senate last year. Mr. Romney mounted a new advertisement recently in Iowa, New Hampshire and on national cable networks that plays up his call to increase the size of the military. Another commercial that features him wielding his veto pen in Massachusetts continues to run nationally. Mr. McCain and Mr. Giuliani have not yet rolled out any commercials. In his continued courtship of evangelical voters, Mr. Romney’s campaign is dispatching Mark DeMoss, an evangelical publicist whose clients include the Rev. Franklin Graham, the son of the Rev. , and Jay Sekulow, a prominent evangelical activist and lawyer, to meet with conservative Christian leaders in South Carolina, Iowa and elsewhere. Mr. DeMoss had his first meetings with evangelical pastors in Greenville, S.C., on Wednesday. The pastors appeared receptive and some were even enthusiastic, he said, but most continue to hold back from public support. “The idea of an evangelical supporting a Mormon for president, it’s a new idea,” he said. “This scenario has never presented itself before. And because of that, and because of the theological issues that some people have raised, I think a lot of evangelicals are just approaching this very cautiously.” Mr. Romney’s basic strategy is to try to use strong showings in the early voting primary states, many of which have large numbers of conservative voters, to slingshot him to the front of the Republican field. In a first step in that strategy, he and his aides are focusing on the straw poll here in August. It is a largely symbolic but potentially important contest that Mr. Giuliani has yet to decide whether to compete in. On Wednesday, Mr. Romney repeatedly called on audience members to attend the straw poll, which is “in 97 days,” adding with a wink, but “who’s counting?” Accuses Sharpton of a Bigoted Remark Set to Debate, G.O.P. Contenders Ponder What to Say About Bush Romney Says Rivals Changed Minds, Too McCain Replaces His Finance Director Just Before Official Tour to Declare Candidacy Presidential Election of 2008 Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11moore.html?ex=1336536000&en=9503e2bbca21dcd7&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie 2007 LOS ANGELES, May 10 — , the provocative filmmaker who has made a career out of skewering automakers, gun enthusiasts and the Bush administration, is being investigated by the Treasury Department over a trip he made to for his new film, “Sicko.” Skip to next paragraph Michael Moore is being investigated by the government. This month the department sent a letter to Mr. Moore saying it was investigating whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba when he accompanied sick workers seeking free medical care as part of a documentary on America’s health care industry. Treasury Department representatives did not return phone calls seeking comment. On Mr. Moore’s Web site, the film’s producer, Meghan O’Hara, called the department’s actions a “politically motivated investigation.” The ailing workers shown traveling to Cuba in the film had helped clean up the World Trade Center site after the Sept. 11 attacks. The letter from the Treasury Department asked for detailed including evidence that Mr. Moore was employed as a journalist. Journalists can secure permission to go to Cuba. The government also sought the name and address of the travel agent who made the reservations, and receipts, and the names and addresses of all of those who went on the trip. News of the letter was first reported by The Associated Press. Chris Lehane, who was press secretary to Vice President and has been retained by the Weinstein Company, the film’s distributor, said the Treasury Department had been aware of the trip for a long time. “We feel comfortable with the terms with which we went to Cuba,” Mr. Lehane said. , a co-founder of the company, said the timing of the letter suggested an attack by the Bush administration meant to discredit the film. But Mr. Weinstein said: “They are only causing more publicity. It’s so ironic. They should let sleeping dogs lie.” He said he was concerned that the Treasury Department would try to prevent the part of the movie shot in Cuba from being shown. “We have the resources to fight,” he said. “Sicko” is set to open at the on May 19 and nationwide on June 29. If past behavior portends the future, Mr. Moore and his backers will most likely use the government inquiry to the film’s advantage. In May 2004, Mr. Moore and his agent, Ari Emanuel, went public with complaints that the Walt Disney Company was refusing to distribute the film “Fahrenheit 9/11,” causing a ruckus in Hollywood and Washington. The movie earned $220 million at the box office worldwide. 9/11' on Cuba's Prime Time Judge Upholds Plan for Return Of Boy to Cuba Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/health/11anemia.html F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Health & Behavior F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs 2007 SILVER SPRING, Md., May 10 &#151; Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat The recommendations by an advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration followed a flurry of studies suggesting that the drugs, meant to help patients cope with , might actually be making their cancer worse or hastening their deaths. The drugs &#151; Aranesp from Amgen and Procrit from Johnson &#38; Johnson &#151; are used by about a half-million American cancer patients a year and have billions of dollars in annual sales. Some members of the committee expressed shock that even though Procrit was first approved 14 years ago, it was still not clear if the drugs were safe at the doses typically used. &#8220;Yes, we have a burning question,&#8221; one panel member, Dr. Silvana Martino, an oncologist in Santa Monica, Calif., said at the meeting here. &#8220;Do these things kill people?&#8221; Most of the studies showing a risk involved use of the drugs at doses higher than doctors typically give them. That left the committee with the question of what to do about use of the drugs at the usual doses until more data become available. The F.D.A. has already clamped down on the drugs. In March it put strict new warnings on the labels, saying the products should be used at the smallest dosage that lets anemic patients avoid blood transfusions. But the panel&#8217;s votes Thursday portend even further restrictions. The committee voted 12 to 5, for instance, that the drugs should be barred from use by patients with certain types of cancer until more is known about their safety. While the committee did not specify which types, several members mentioned , non-small cell lung cancer and head and neck cancer. The committee voted 15 to 2 that there should be more restrictions in general if the drugs remain on the market, and 17 to 0 that more studies were needed. And it voted 16 to 1 that anemia therapy should be stopped when chemotherapy is finished. But in one victory for the drug makers, the committee voted 11 to 6 against lowering the ceiling on how much the anemia should be corrected. The labels now say that a patient&#8217;s hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying component of red blood cells, should not be raised to more than 12 grams per deciliter of blood. The F.D.A. usually follows the recommendations of such panels. Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the agency&#8217;s cancer drug division, said Thursday he could not say yet when or how the agency would act. The two drugs, along with another Amgen drug, Epogen, are also used to treat anemia caused by kidney disease, but yesterday&#8217;s meeting concerned only cancer treatment. Another hearing dealing with kidney disease will be held early in the fall. The panel&#8217;s recommendations were a particular blow to Amgen, which last year took in nearly half its $14.3 billion in revenue from the anemia drugs. Johnson &#38; Johnson is far larger and more diversified than Amgen, and so is less dependent on Procrit sales. &#8220;I think it&#8217;s worse than what investors expected,&#8221; Michael Aberman, an analyst who follows Amgen for Credit Suisse, said after the meeting. Amgen&#8217;s stock fell $5.77, or more than 9 percent, to close at $57.33. Trish Hawkins, an Amgen spokeswoman, said in a statement, &#8220;We will be working with the F.D.A. as they consider the committee&#8217;s recommendations.&#8221; The drugs, known generically as darbepoetin and epoetin, were approved to reduce the need for blood transfusions in patients with anemia from chemotherapy. Many doctors and patients believe the drugs fight fatigue and improve patients&#8217; daily lives, although the F.D.A. said it did not find studies with persuasive evidence of such benefits. A panel member from , Dr. Otis Brawley, said some doctors overprescribed the drugs because they made money from doing so. Doctors can sometimes receive more from insurers than they pay for the drugs, especially if they receive rebates from the manufacturers. Dr. Brawley said the drug companies had not done proper studies, and at one point asked them, &#8220;What data do you have to assure me that this is not Miracle-Gro for cancer?&#8221; The staff of the F.D.A. was also critical of the companies, saying they had not provided data they had promised when a similar advisory panel meeting was held in 2004. The companies and their advocates argued that ample data showed the drugs were safe when used properly, except for a long-known risk of increased blood clots. They also argued that the drugs had significant benefits. Forcing cancer patients to go back to transfusions, they said, would expose the patients to risks and inconvenience and further strain the nation&#8217;s already taxed blood supply. That sentiment was also voiced by some committee members. &#8220;I think the idea of going back to the dark ages in regards to supportive care is a step backward,&#8221; said Dr. S. Gail Eckhardt of the , the panel&#8217;s chairman. Advisory panel meetings often feature eloquent pleas from patients that a drug be approved or kept on the market. But there was not a big outpouring of support for the anemia drugs. In fact, some patients expressed dismay at how the drugs were used. &#8220;How is it possible that what was meant to help me might actually have made things worse?&#8221; said Lilla Romeo, who has had breast cancer since 1995. Next Article in Health (2 of 15) PLACE; Amgen Seeks To Reverse Its Bad News ImClone's Drug Fails in Pancreatic Cancer Study F.D.A. Approves Glaxo Cancer Drug Studies Show Anemia Drugs May Harm Cancer Patients Food and Drug Administration Next Article in Health (2 of 15) &#x00bb; Everything you need to know about heart disease Hip resurfacing: is it right for you? The changing attitudes towards "chemo brain" Treating the awkward years Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/washington/11gonzales.html Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals 2007 WASHINGTON, May 10 — House Democrats pressed Attorney General at a hearing on Thursday to provide specifics about why federal prosecutors had been dismissed, but he stuck to his past assertions that, although ineptly handled, the dismissals were justified and appropriate. Democrats at the hearing of the House Judiciary Committee tried but failed to elicit greater clarity about the specific reasons for removing each prosecutor. Mr. Gonzales offered little new information, repeating that his role in the dismissals had been limited. Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the panel, seemed to voice the most frustration over Mr. Gonzales’s testimony, saying, “Tell us, just tell us how the U.S. attorney termination list came to be, and who suggested putting most of these on the list and why.” Mr. Gonzales repeated his assertion that the list represented “the consensus recommendation of the senior leadership of the department.” “O.K., in other words, you don’t know,” Mr. Conyers said. Mr. Gonzales signaled at the outset of the hearing that there would be few bombshells. He said that since he testified three weeks ago at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing, “My feelings and recollections about this matter haven’t changed.” Representative Linda T. Sanchez, the California Democrat who has led the House inquiry, expressed frustration over the inability of the Justice Department to fully explain the dismissals. Ms. Sanchez said Congressional investigators had interviewed most of the Justice Department officials involved, but, she said, “not one has been able to recall or take responsibility for how and why these U.S. attorneys were added to the firing list.” on the House committee were more supportive of Mr. Gonzales than their counterparts in the Senate, where some Republicans were scathingly critical after his testimony there. Several House Republicans asked no questions about the dismissals, instead praising Mr. Gonzales’s performance or quizzing him on issues like illegal , copyright policy, computer crime and terrorism. of Texas, the ranking Republican on the panel, said, “As we have gone forward, the list of accusations has grown, but the evidence of genuine wrongdoing has not.” Mr. Smith added, “If there are no fish in this lake, we should reel in our lines of questions, dock our empty boat and turn to more pressing issues.” Mr. Gonzales at times expressed contrition for his mishandling of the dismissals, including his earlier misstatements about the process, but insisted that the action was appropriate. “What I have concluded is that although the process was not as rigorous or as structured as it should have been, and while reasonable people might decide things differently, my decision to ask for the resignations of these U.S. attorneys was not based on improper reasons and therefore the decision should stand.” Several Democrats questioned Mr. Gonzales’s credibility. Representative , Democrat of New York, asked how people could have confidence in his management when he was unable to answer questions about the specific United States attorneys and why they were dismissed. “Look at the record of the department,” Mr. Gonzales said, expressing a flash of annoyance that broke with his otherwise resolute demeanor. “Look at the record of the department.” “That doesn’t answer the question,” Mr. Nadler replied. Several Democrats asked Mr. Gonzales about news reports that a ninth United States attorney, Todd P. Graves, had been pushed to resign his post in Kansas City, Mo. Mr. Graves said in interviews that he had been forced out by Justice Department officials in March 2006. Mr. Gonzales denied that Mr. Graves had been removed as part of the process supervised by his former chief of staff, D. Kyle Sampson, which resulted in the removal of eight other prosecutors. But Mr. Graves was asked to resign after his name was placed on a Justice Department list in January 2006. It is not publicly known why Mr. Graves was asked to resign, but he had disagreed with a voting rights lawsuit that Justice Department officials wanted to bring in his district against the State of Missouri. Democrats viewed the lawsuit as a Republican effort to remove the poor and elderly from the voting rolls. Mr. Gonzales said he had consulted Thursday with officials at the department’s civil rights division and had been told that the case had nothing to do with the decision to seek Mr. Graves’s resignation. “We aren’t aware of any concerns that existed in that office with respect to this particular case” he said. After Mr. Graves refused to agree to the litigation, a lawsuit was authorized by Bradley J. Schlozman, the acting chief of the civil rights unit in Washington, a division of the department that Democrats have accused of advocating Republican causes. Later, Mr. Gonzales named Mr. Schlozman as Mr. Graves’s temporary successor. Mr. Schlozman has since returned to Justice Department headquarters. &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect OUSTED PROSECUTORS: NEWS ANALYSIS; On a Very Hot Seat With Little Cover And Less Support 'NOTHING TO HIDE,' GONZALES INSISTS BEFORE HEARING For Gonzales, More Records, And Questions Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11debris.html say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. 2007 SAN FRANCISCO, May 9 — It was just another rush hour. On eastbound Interstate 580 near Pleasanton recently, a rocking chair brought traffic to a near-standstill, while on southbound I-680 near Walnut Creek, a trampoline blocked two left lanes, wreaking havoc on the morning commute. Bagged loaves of sourdough bread blocked U.S. 101, near Petaluma. The highway patrol had to be dispatched. Skip to next paragraph An Average Mile of Litter Video: 'City of Trash' Public Service Announcement On the set of a commercial for a &#147;secure your load&#148; campaign in Washington State, staff members photographed an improperly loaded truck. Last month, a plastic sink was on the loose, stretched across two lanes of the San Mateo Bridge. The sink was something of a departure from the mattresses, aluminum ladders, sofas, buckets — with the occasional spilled Napa County grapes thrown in — that snarled traffic and contributed to the state’s daily accumulation of road debris. While by no means unique to California, pickup trucks and other vehicles piled high with improperly secured loads are a fact of life here, contributing — thanks to the laws of physics — to an estimated 140,000 cubic yards of road debris a year. That is enough to fill 8,750 garbage trucks, which would extend for 45 miles, said Tamie McGowen, a spokeswoman for Caltrans, the state transportation department. And it is increasingly hazardous, experts say. In California, 155 people lost their lives in the last two years after accidents involving objects on highways, and states are beginning to address the issue. Next week, a murder trial is set to begin in the death of a Los Angeles county deputy sheriff who was killed when he swerved to avoid a stolen stove that had fallen from a Long Beach man’s truck. In California and across the nation, where some freeway shoulders have come to resemble weekend yard sales, the nature of road debris has changed, and litter anthropologists are now studying the phenomenon. Where “deliberate” litter used to reign — those blithely tossed fast-food wrappers and the like — “unintentional” or “negligent” litter from poorly secured loads is making its presence felt. Steven R. Stein, a litter analyst for R. W. Beck, a waste-consulting firm in Maryland, attributes the change to more trash-hauling vehicles, including recycling trucks, and the ubiquity of pickup trucks on the country’s highways. In 1986, Mr. Stein said, two-thirds of the debris was deliberate, but surveys now show the litter seesaw balanced. He said the two most recent surveys indicated a further increase in unintentional litter. In Georgia, which recently quantified its litter, 66 percent of road debris comes from unintentional litter, largely unsecured loads. A study in Tennessee last year showed that 70 percent of the state’s debris was unintentional. By dint of its climate, size, population, lengthy growing season, increasingly long commutes and, perhaps, its casual lifestyle, California is a road-debris leader. It is also home to the country’s largest number of registered vehicles — 32 million, twice that of No. 2 Texas — and roughly four million pickup trucks, the most of any state, according to the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers in Washington. No other state spends more on litter removal, in excess of $55 million, said Christine Flowers-Ewing, the executive director of Keep California Beautiful, a nonprofit environmental education organization. Motorists in California can be fined if anything other than feathers from live birds or water should escape. (In Nebraska, the exception is corn stalks; in Kentucky, coal.) Along with mudslides, brush fires and earthquakes, chance encounters with a set of box springs, a chintz cushion or a crate of lettuces are the daily stuff of radio traffic updates, recounted in excruciating detail. When a tractor-trailer full of freeze-dried oriental soup and vegetables spilled onto the I-710 freeway near Los Angeles, for example, “there was one from Column A, and one from Columns B and C,” said Peter Demetriou, a veteran traffic reporter for KFWB radio in Los Angeles. “The only problem was, it was Lane 1, Lane 2 and Lane 3.” Greg Williams, who has worked for the California Highway Patrol in Bakersfield for 27 years, cited a carrot truck spill in the fog on State Highway 84 as his worst case. “In cities, we chase furniture; in rural areas it’s cattle, sheep, horses, buckets and nails,” Mr. Williams said. “There’s nothing slipperier than a crushed carrot.” Request to Toughen Truck Drivers&#8217; Rules National Briefing | West: California: Radio Show Pulled After Contest Death Death Rate on Highways Rises, and Motorcycles Are Blamed complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html National News - All Headlines PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN Experts say that today&#146;s do-it-yourself mentality, in part, leads many people, like this driver in Burlington, Ontario, to haul large items. California is beginning to address the issue of deaths caused by accidents involving objects on highways. Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Firefighters struggled today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island. Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Today, as parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail The men, charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix, were arrested on Tuesday after a 15-month investigation. New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas’s Horizon Twelve candidates are in a wild scramble to head the nation’s ninth-largest metropolis, long troubled by crime, scandals, racial polarization and government gridlock. F.D.A. Panel Seeks Limits on Cancer Patient Drugs Bowing to safety concerns, government medical advisers urged on Thursday that additional restrictions be put on the use of drugs that treat anemia in cancer patients. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Many conservative Christians are concerned about Mitt Romney’s religion and his recent shift on abortion rights. Democrats Push Gonzales on Attorney Dismissals Attorney General Alberto R. Gonzales stuck to his past assertions that the firings were appropriate. Men Apologize for Boston Cartoon Stunt Purdue Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion U.S. Charges a Leading Chicago Political Figure With Fraud and Bribery Passage of Drug Safety Bill Was Common Goal for Two Very Different Senators Spellings Rejects Criticism on Student Loan Scandal Bush and Democrats in Accord on Labor Rights in Trade Deals Civil Liberties Advocate Named Ombudsman for Texas Youth Man Convicted in 1993 Restaurant Killings Dairy Council to End Ad Campaign That Linked Drinking Milk With Weight Loss Theodore Maiman, 79, Dies; Demonstrated First Laser Texas: Concern Over Buzzards Delays ‘Body Farm’ North Carolina: Immigrant Freed Over Demeaning Photograph California: Plan to Privatize Lottery California: Conviction in Secrets Case California: Ill Woman Is Dropping Marijuana Battle Washington: Whistle-Blower Ordered to Be Reinstated Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. In Houston, Giuliani Defends Abortion Stance Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Warns Iran President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure House Passes Ban on Gifts From Student Lenders Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie By LAURA M. HOLSON The Treasury Department sent a letter to Michael Moore, a provocative filmmaker, to investigate whether he had violated restrictions on travel to Cuba. The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Armless, One - Legged Driver Leads Chase Va. Tech Graduations Honor Slain Victims Mysterious Object Probably Space Junk Knoxville Zoo Displays Albino Alligator Md. School Evacuated Over Odd Bottle Study Renews Debate Over Sows in Crates Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Europeans Press Wolfowitz to Quit as Bank Chief Will Reinvestigate Its Professor Who Claimed Desktop Fusion Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Plan what to see, eat and do. Looking to buy a new car? Post a job online today! Browse movie reviews from 1913. Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Fifth Avenue strollers, circa 1900 Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-virginia.html Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation A Virginia Tech student paying his respects at a memorial to the shooting victims before the start of commencement exercises. 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at the was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger and less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Melanie Blanding for memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. But that harsh unpredictability came to the Virginia Tech campus in April with a deadly shooting rampage. And today, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is both a parent of one the slain students and a professor on campus. Mr. Cloyd carried a distinct trepidation into the ceremonies, but overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities. He will receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin, in hopes of helping remove the “emotional cloud” still looming over campus, he said. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped that graduation and the promise of summer would lessen her haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her professor, , blocked the door, temporarily keeping the gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merry said she plans to move in the coming weeks to Chicago, where some of her relatives live, and to start looking there for a job in engineering. Distance and a recent haircut may help restore an anonymity and normalcy that was removed by the shootings, she added. “Graduation is hard enough, because you don’t know what happens next,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” Karan Grewal, a former suitemate of the gunman, , said his mind drifts to questions he would rather avoid. “I think about why he didn’t start with us back at the suite, and why he went to the other dorm instead,” Mr. Grewal said. “But my philosophy has been that if I let those thoughts take over, then Cho won. So, I focus on enjoying graduation and moving forward.” Looking toward Saturday, when individual departments will hold their own ceremonies, Nikki Giovanni, a poet and English Department professor, said it was a difficult time to be a public speaker. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” said Ms. Giovanni, who was asked by others on the faculty to speak at her departmental ceremony. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She would not need to write much new material, because her department asked her to deliver her poem, “We are Virginia Tech,” again. She presented that poem during a convocation in the days after the shooting, and it became an emotional turning point during that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet in clapping and chanting. Saturday’s commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly, she said, because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy. More than with sorrow, Dr. Ishwar K. Puri said he finished the year with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, said that when the police sealed off Norris Hall, the site of most of the shooting, as a crime scene, his 24 faculty members, 80 doctoral students and 25 master’s students were left blocked from their laboratories. Their research ground to a halt; so did their ability to apply for jobs or for research grants. But offers to help began arriving almost immediately, he said. The Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands invited his whole faculty to work in its laboratories on paid sabbaticals. Dell, the computer manufacturer, donated 30 laptop and 20 desktop computers to replace those left stranded in the inaccessible laboratories. University opened their laboratories for internships. “Really, this has turned into a story of hope, not despair,” he said. He added, however, that as he looked toward the summer, he had to admit there was a small sense of dread, too. As the spirit of Hokie pride subsides on campus with the departure of students and faculty, Dr. Puri said he was not looking forward to facing a painful task he has put off for weeks: the writing of a job announcement to seek replacements for the two professors in his department who were killed. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11cnd-dix.html?ex=1336536000&en=b0039749a0948239&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 — Six Muslim men from New Jersey and Philadelphia charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix with automatic weapons were ordered held without bail today by a federal magistrate here. The men were arrested on Monday night after a 15-month investigation in which the and two informers who had infiltrated the group taped them training with automatic weapons in rural Pennsylvania, conducting surveillance of military bases in the Northeast, watching videos of and the 9/11 hijackers and trying to buy AK-47 assault rifles. The authorities have described the suspects as Islamic extremists and have said they represent the newest breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to — but inspired by — or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued today that the men, all of whom were born outside the United States, should be denied bail because they posed a flight risk. Only one of the men, Mohamad Shnewer, requested bail, with his family offering to put up four properties worth $580,000 and requesting that he be placed under house arrest with an electronic monitoring bracelet. An assistant United States attorney, Stephen R. Stigall, argued that house arrest offered no protection to the public because Mr. Shnewer “was living in that same house” as the plan to attack Fort Dix was being put together. United States Magistate Joel Schneider ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, be held without bail. They have been held in a detention center in Philadelphia since their arrest. Five of the men — Mohamad Shnewer, 22; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir Duka, 23 — are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. The sixth man, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He will have a more detailed bail hearing later this week. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the attorney for Dritan Duka, said that defending terror suspects is challenging, “This is post-9/11,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “This is one of the No. 1 things on the public’s mind.” Troy Archie, the lawyer for the defendant Eljvir Duka, complained about the conditions under which his client is being held. Mr. Archie said that Mr. Duka “is basically just sitting in a cell in solitary” and that he had not been allowed to talk to his family. Mr. Archie also said that Mr. Duka’s request for a Koran had been ignored. The defense lawyer also raised questions about the confidential informer who prosecutors said was central to the case. “I just don’t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on allege , within 30 days of meeting them,” Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer’s background, which he said included a criminal record. “Everyone in the community knew him,” Mr. Archie said, “and he was bad news.” York Region York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-virginia.html?ex=1336536000&en=6dadbfd48442b036&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Mixed Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation Mood on Campus at Va. Tech Graduation A Virginia Tech student paying his respects at a memorial to the shooting victims before the start of commencement exercises. 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at the was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger and less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Melanie Blanding for memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. But that harsh unpredictability came to the Virginia Tech campus in April with a deadly shooting rampage. And today, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. Students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is both a parent of one the slain students and a professor on campus. Mr. Cloyd carried a distinct trepidation into the ceremonies, but overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities. He will receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin, in hopes of helping remove the “emotional cloud” still looming over campus, he said. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped that graduation and the promise of summer would lessen her haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her professor, , blocked the door, temporarily keeping the gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merry said she plans to move in the coming weeks to Chicago, where some of her relatives live, and to start looking there for a job in engineering. Distance and a recent haircut may help restore an anonymity and normalcy that was removed by the shootings, she added. “Graduation is hard enough, because you don’t know what happens next,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” Karan Grewal, a former suitemate of the gunman, , said his mind drifts to questions he would rather avoid. “I think about why he didn’t start with us back at the suite, and why he went to the other dorm instead,” Mr. Grewal said. “But my philosophy has been that if I let those thoughts take over, then Cho won. So, I focus on enjoying graduation and moving forward.” Looking toward Saturday, when individual departments will hold their own ceremonies, Nikki Giovanni, a poet and English Department professor, said it was a difficult time to be a public speaker. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” said Ms. Giovanni, who was asked by others on the faculty to speak at her departmental ceremony. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She would not need to write much new material, because her department asked her to deliver her poem, “We are Virginia Tech,” again. She presented that poem during a convocation in the days after the shooting, and it became an emotional turning point during that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet in clapping and chanting. Saturday’s commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly, she said, because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy. More than with sorrow, Dr. Ishwar K. Puri said he finished the year with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the Department of Engineering Science and Mechanics, said that when the police sealed off Norris Hall, the site of most of the shooting, as a crime scene, his 24 faculty members, 80 doctoral students and 25 master’s students were left blocked from their laboratories. Their research ground to a halt; so did their ability to apply for jobs or for research grants. But offers to help began arriving almost immediately, he said. The Technical University of Delft in the Netherlands invited his whole faculty to work in its laboratories on paid sabbaticals. Dell, the computer manufacturer, donated 30 laptop and 20 desktop computers to replace those left stranded in the inaccessible laboratories. University opened their laboratories for internships. “Really, this has turned into a story of hope, not despair,” he said. He added, however, that as he looked toward the summer, he had to admit there was a small sense of dread, too. As the spirit of Hokie pride subsides on campus with the departure of students and faculty, Dr. Puri said he was not looking forward to facing a painful task he has put off for weeks: the writing of a job announcement to seek replacements for the two professors in his department who were killed. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/us/11cnd-blaze.html?ex=1336536000&en=616db4de7e44ee94&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Threatens a California Resort Island Smoke rose over Avalon on Thursday. 2007 Firefighters struggled early today to prevent a wildfire from reaching homes on the edge of Santa Catalina Island’s main town, as residents and visitors fled the resort island off the Southern California coast. Skip to next paragraph wildfire approached Santa Catalina Island&#146;s main city, Avalon, on Thursday. People wait to be evacuated from the town of Avalon, Calif., as smoke from a wildfire rises in the background on Santa Catalina Island. At least 160 firefighters, aided by four water-dropping helicopters and three retardant-dropping air tankers, battled flames through most of Thursday. The helicopters flew into the night and were back in the air at dawn today. Dozens of fire engines from as far away as Fresno arrived through the night aboard giant military hovercraft from the Marine Corps base at Camp Pendleton. The high-speed hovercraft can carry 60 tons of cargo over land or water, and are often used by the military on humanitarian missions. The blaze broke out Thursday afternoon on the island, which is more than 20 miles off the coast. Flames threatened the city limits of Avalon, where hundreds of people lined up at the harbor Thursday night to board ferries back to the mainland. Many covered their faces with towels and bandanas as ashes fell around them. A few homes on the island were burned, but firefighters worked to protect other properties late into the night, said Steven Hoefs, the chief of the Avalon fire department. Some 1,200 homes were under voluntary or mandatory evacuation orders. “We’re hanging in for now,” Chief Hoefs said. The blaze, which began five miles east of the island’s airport, grew to cover 4,000 acres, feeding on dry brush and scrub as winds steadily blew throughout the day and into the night on Thursday. Winds later calmed and the air grew more humid, although the threat of fire remained. An orange inferno loomed behind the quaint crescent-shaped harbor, the landmark 1929 Catalina Casino, and the homes, restaurants and tiny hotels clinging to slopes above the Avalon waterfront. A commercial building and several warehouses burned, and 175 utility customers lost electricity when power poles caught on fire. Overnight, Blackhawk and Chinook helicopters were ferrying in firefighters, 32 at a time. Crews were being positioned at the city’s edge to protect homes. “We’re on defense mode for now,” Chief Hoefs said. In Avalon, authorities used a bullhorn to urge people to evacuate the city and head to the beach. Visitors to the island were directed to the historic Art Deco-style Casino building until it lost power, while residents were sent to another site along the harbor. The Catalina Express ferry service added several night departures of 400-passenger vessels from Avalon. Hundreds of residents and visitors boarded the ferries to reach the mainland. A family of eight said they had just enough time to pack some clothes and personal papers before fleeing. “I’m scared,” said Angelica Romero, 30, holding her 7-month-old daughter. “But what’s important is I have my children. The rest doesn’t matter.” At the mainland port of Long Beach, Kathy Troeger, a Santa Catalina resident, arrived by ferry with her three children and a friend’s daughter. Her husband, a fire captain, stayed behind to help fight the blaze. “It was like a nightmare when we left,” she said. “You couldn’t breathe, and ash was falling like snow.” An evacuation center was set up at Cabrillo High School, where about 85 people had checked in, according to the Red Cross. Santa Catalina has been left parched by the same lack of rainfall that has made the Southern California mainland particularly susceptible to wildfires, like the one in Griffith Park in Los Angeles earlier this week. Firefighters were still working there today to surround what remained of the fire, which briefly chased people from adjacent homes and threatened the park’s landmark observatory and its zoo. Los Angeles officials had expected the Griffith Park fire to be fully contained by Thursday, two days after it peaked, and no visible flames remained, but fire crews were still building containment lines around the fire’s perimeter late into the night. Only 2 inches of rain have fallen on Santa Catalina since January. The island is long and fairly narrow, covering a total of 76 square miles of land area, most of it owned and kept as a preserve by the Santa Catalina Island Conservancy. various wildlife. The populated areas are served by helicopters and ferry boats from Los Angeles, Long Beach and other mainland harbors. Avalon, the main town, has a year-round population of 3,200, but swells to more than 10,000 on weekends and in the summer, according to the Catalina Island Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau. The Associated Press contributed to this report. Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/11/nyregion/11cnd-dix.html 6 Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail Charged in Fort Dix Plot Held Without Bail 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 — Six Muslim men from New Jersey and Philadelphia charged with plotting to attack Fort Dix with automatic weapons were ordered held without bail today by a federal magistrate here. The men were arrested on Monday night after a 15-month investigation in which the and two informers who had infiltrated the group taped them training with automatic weapons in rural Pennsylvania, conducting surveillance of military bases in the Northeast, watching videos of and the 9/11 hijackers and trying to buy AK-47 assault rifles. The authorities have described the suspects as Islamic extremists and have said they represent the newest breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to — but inspired by — or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued today that the men, all of whom were born outside the United States, should be denied bail because they posed a flight risk. Only one of the men, Mohamad Shnewer, requested bail, with his family offering to put up four properties worth $580,000 and requesting that he be placed under house arrest with an electronic monitoring bracelet. An assistant United States attorney, Stephen R. Stigall, argued that house arrest offered no protection to the public because Mr. Shnewer “was living in that same house” as the plan to attack Fort Dix was being put together. United States Magistate Joel Schneider ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, be held without bail. They have been held in a detention center in Philadelphia since their arrest. Five of the men — Mohamad Shnewer, 22; Serdar Tatar, 23; Dritan Duka, 28; Shain Duka, 26; and Eljvir Duka, 23 — are charged with conspiring to kill uniformed military personnel, an offense punishable by life in prison. The sixth man, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He will have a more detailed bail hearing later this week. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the attorney for Dritan Duka, said that defending terror suspects is challenging, “This is post-9/11,” he said, according to The Associated Press. “This is one of the No. 1 things on the public’s mind.” Troy Archie, the lawyer for the defendant Eljvir Duka, complained about the conditions under which his client is being held. Mr. Archie said that Mr. Duka “is basically just sitting in a cell in solitary” and that he had not been allowed to talk to his family. Mr. Archie also said that Mr. Duka’s request for a Koran had been ignored. The defense lawyer also raised questions about the confidential informer who prosecutors said was central to the case. “I just don’t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on allege , within 30 days of meeting them,” Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer’s background, which he said included a criminal record. “Everyone in the community knew him,” Mr. Archie said, “and he was bad news.” York Region York Region &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Benjamin Franklin Bronze Portrait Bust Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/12virginia.html Tears Are Mixed Are Mixed Pool photo by Sam Dean The parents of Matthew Gregory Gwaltney, who was killed in the shooting on the Virginia Tech campus, hugged a professor who accepted his degree in his absence. 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger, less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Mixed Mood Melanie Blanding for memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. Thousands assembled to listen to speakers on Friday at Cassell Coliseum. Virginia Tech says 3,600 seniors are graduating this month, with most receiving degrees in smaller departmental ceremonies. But that harsh unpredictability came last month after the nation’s deadliest shooting rampage here, and on Friday, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is a parent of one of the slain students and a professor on campus. “But there is a cloud over the campus, and that makes it more difficult for graduates and their families to experience graduation the way they should.” Mr. Cloyd overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities in order to receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. During the evening ceremony in the football stadium, students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived when 32 others had died at a student’s hand. A large video screen flashed photographs of the victims. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. Several speakers at the ceremony did not mention the shooting at all, instead dispensing advice eternal to all commencements. But the keynote speaker, retired Gen. of the Army, former commander of the United States Central Command, expressed his condolences. “Adversity has a way of challenging all of us, sooner or later,” he said. “How we collectively bear up to the pressures of unexpected tragedy, how we care for and honor those who suffer loss, how we hold on to our values despite the seductive lure of simple, quick and easy solutions to the complex problems we face — how we deal with such things defines us forever.” Virginia Tech’s president, Charles W. Steger, reassured the crowd: “Please know that moving on is not the same as forgetting. We shall not forget.” Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped graduation and summer would lessen a haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her engineering professor, , blocked the classroom door temporarily keeping the student gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu, 76, died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merrey said she planned to move to Chicago, where her relatives live, and to start looking for a job in engineering. “Graduation is hard enough,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” In an afternoon ceremony for about 1,200 graduate students, a crowd of several thousand stood and clapped as faculty members embraced some of the families of the nine slain graduate students. All nine were awarded posthumous degrees. About 3,600 seniors graduate this year, most receiving their diplomas in smaller departmental ceremonies this weekend. The poet Nikki Giovanni, an English professor who taught the gunman, , was asked to speak at her department’s ceremony on Saturday. It will be a hard speech to give, she said. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” Ms. Giovanni said. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She will not need to write much new material because her department requested that she once again deliver her poem “We Are Virginia Tech,” which she first read at a convocation days after the shooting. The poem became an emotional turning point in that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet. The Saturday commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy, she said. For Ishwar K. Puri, the year ended less with sorrow than with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the department of engineering science and mechanics, said his students and faculty members were blocked from their laboratories when the university closed Norris Hall, the classroom building where most of the victims were killed. As their research ground to a halt, so did their ability to apply for further financing or jobs. But generous offers arrived almost immediately, he said, including paid sabbaticals, student internships and scores of donated computers. And yet, looking toward summer, Dr. Puri said he could not help but feel dread, too. He will have to write job announcements to replace two of his department’s slain professors. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Murders and Attempted Murders new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12plot.html Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 &#151; The six men charged in connection with a plot to attack the Fort Dix military reservation were ordered held without bail on Friday by a federal magistrate. The men were arrested on Monday night after the authorities said they tried to buy machine guns from an informer working with the Prosecutors said the informer had infiltrated the group in March 2006 and helped the authorities tape the suspects training with automatic weapons, conducting surveillance of military bases in New Jersey and Delaware and vowing to kill scores of soldiers. Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, has described the suspects as Islamic extremists who represent a new breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to, but inspired by, or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued Friday in United States District Court here that the men, who lived in southern New Jersey and Philadelphia, would pose a danger to the public if released and, because they were all born overseas, were also a risk to flee the country. Only one of the suspects asked for bail: Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, a cabdriver and American citizen who was born in Jordan. He is described in the criminal complaint as the main facilitator of the plan. His lawyer, Rocco C. Cipparone Jr., said Mr. Shnewer, 22, and his family had lived in the United States for decades, and his friends and relatives offered to put up four properties with $580,000 in equity for bail. Mr. Cipparone requested that Mr. Shnewer be placed under 24-hour house arrest at his family&#8217;s home in Cherry Hill, and said he could be fitted with an electronic monitoring bracelet to ensure that he did not stray. But R. Stephen Stigall, an assistant United States attorney, argued that given the seriousness of the charges, it would be dangerous to release him. Mr. Stigall also asserted that house arrest offered the public little protection because Mr. Shnewer &#8220;was living in that same house&#8221; when the authorities said he was assembling the plan to attack Fort Dix. Joel Schneider, the United States magistrate judge, ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, remain at the federal detention center in Philadelphia without bail. Mr. Shnewer, along with Serdar Tatar, 23, and three brothers &#151; Eljvir, Shain and Dritan Duka, ages 23, 26 and 28 &#151; face charges of conspiring to kill uniformed American soldiers, which carry a possible sentence of life in prison. The sixth suspect, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He is scheduled to have a more detailed bail hearing on Thursday. Federal agents started investigating the men in January 2006, after a clerk at a Circuit City store in Mount Laurel told the police that a videotape he had been asked to transfer to DVD showed what looked like a terrorist training exercise. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the lawyer for Dritan Duka, said defending suspects charged with terrorism would be challenging given the public mood and the intense publicity the case has attracted. &#8220;This is post-9/11,&#8221; Mr. Huff said. &#8220;This is one of the No. 1 things on the public&#8217;s mind.&#8221; Troy A. Archie, the lawyer for Eljvir Duka, complained that his client had been unfairly denied a request for a copy of the Koran or the opportunity to telephone his relatives. Mr. Archie also raised questions about the confidential informer, who prosecutors said was central to the case. &#8220;I just don&#8217;t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on alleged, within 30 days of meeting them,&#8221; Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer&#8217;s background, which he said included a criminal record. &#8220;Everyone in the community knew him,&#8221; Mr. Archie said, &#8220;and he was bad news.&#8221; Next Article in New York Region (12 of 16) &#x00bb; Access 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect Is Out on Bail In Case of Access To Hezbollah TV Another Prologue Begins In Epic 9/11 Court Case Bail Denied for Brooklyn Bookseller Accused of Financing Terrorism Metro Briefing | New York: Brooklyn: Judge Allows Bail In Terror Case Federal Bureau of Investigation Next Article in New York Region (12 of 16) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/nyregion/12plot.html?ex=1336622400&en=1d84e886a84ba610&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail 2007 CAMDEN, N.J., May 11 &#151; The six men charged in connection with a plot to attack the Fort Dix military reservation were ordered held without bail on Friday by a federal magistrate. The men were arrested on Monday night after the authorities said they tried to buy machine guns from an informer working with the Prosecutors said the informer had infiltrated the group in March 2006 and helped the authorities tape the suspects training with automatic weapons, conducting surveillance of military bases in New Jersey and Delaware and vowing to kill scores of soldiers. Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, has described the suspects as Islamic extremists who represent a new breed of threat: loosely organized domestic militants unconnected to, but inspired by, or other international terror groups. Prosecutors argued Friday in United States District Court here that the men, who lived in southern New Jersey and Philadelphia, would pose a danger to the public if released and, because they were all born overseas, were also a risk to flee the country. Only one of the suspects asked for bail: Mohamad Ibrahim Shnewer, a cabdriver and American citizen who was born in Jordan. He is described in the criminal complaint as the main facilitator of the plan. His lawyer, Rocco C. Cipparone Jr., said Mr. Shnewer, 22, and his family had lived in the United States for decades, and his friends and relatives offered to put up four properties with $580,000 in equity for bail. Mr. Cipparone requested that Mr. Shnewer be placed under 24-hour house arrest at his family&#8217;s home in Cherry Hill, and said he could be fitted with an electronic monitoring bracelet to ensure that he did not stray. But R. Stephen Stigall, an assistant United States attorney, argued that given the seriousness of the charges, it would be dangerous to release him. Mr. Stigall also asserted that house arrest offered the public little protection because Mr. Shnewer &#8220;was living in that same house&#8221; when the authorities said he was assembling the plan to attack Fort Dix. Joel Schneider, the United States magistrate judge, ordered that Mr. Shnewer, along with the five others, remain at the federal detention center in Philadelphia without bail. Mr. Shnewer, along with Serdar Tatar, 23, and three brothers &#151; Eljvir, Shain and Dritan Duka, ages 23, 26 and 28 &#151; face charges of conspiring to kill uniformed American soldiers, which carry a possible sentence of life in prison. The sixth suspect, Agron Abdullahu, 24, is charged with helping illegal immigrants obtain weapons, an offense punishable by up to 10 years in prison. He is scheduled to have a more detailed bail hearing on Thursday. Federal agents started investigating the men in January 2006, after a clerk at a Circuit City store in Mount Laurel told the police that a videotape he had been asked to transfer to DVD showed what looked like a terrorist training exercise. After the hearing, Michael Huff, the lawyer for Dritan Duka, said defending suspects charged with terrorism would be challenging given the public mood and the intense publicity the case has attracted. &#8220;This is post-9/11,&#8221; Mr. Huff said. &#8220;This is one of the No. 1 things on the public&#8217;s mind.&#8221; Troy A. Archie, the lawyer for Eljvir Duka, complained that his client had been unfairly denied a request for a copy of the Koran or the opportunity to telephone his relatives. Mr. Archie also raised questions about the confidential informer, who prosecutors said was central to the case. &#8220;I just don&#8217;t understand how someone could infiltrate an alleged terrorist organization, and my emphasis is on alleged, within 30 days of meeting them,&#8221; Mr. Archie said. He also questioned the informer&#8217;s background, which he said included a criminal record. &#8220;Everyone in the community knew him,&#8221; Mr. Archie said, &#8220;and he was bad news.&#8221; Next Article in New York Region (12 of 16) Is Out on Bail In Case of Access To Hezbollah TV Another Prologue Begins In Epic 9/11 Court Case Bail Denied for Brooklyn Bookseller Accused of Financing Terrorism Metro Briefing | New York: Brooklyn: Judge Allows Bail In Terror Case Federal Bureau of Investigation Next Article in New York Region (12 of 16) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html?partner=rssnyt National News - All Headlines New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. Tears Are Mixed During an evening ceremony, students shared hugs and in quieter moments they spoke of feelings of guilt. Photographs: Mixed Mood Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues By MARC SANTORA and ADAM NAGOURNEY Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Republicans needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on abortion rights, gun control and gay rights to retain the White House. Giuliani in His Own Words Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail The six men charged in connection with a plot to attack the Fort Dix military reservation were ordered held without bail on Friday by a federal magistrate. Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys The Justice Department withdrew one of its proposals to tighten restrictions on lawyers representing detainees at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group By DAVID S. CLOUD The Pentagon is looking into whether Defense Department officials might have engaged in improper fund-raising. Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Town Spared, but Wildfire Still Burns on Catalina Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College Prosecutors Drop All Charges in Boston Terrorism Scare Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Rudolph W. Giuliani: In His Own Words About New York: The Rings of Giuliani Romney Aides Say His Worth Is at Least $260 Million Edwards to Ask Antiwar Stand of Americans On Politics: In the Spotlight, a Bid for a Winner to Take All Booker to Endorse Obama, Calling Him a ‘Voice for Change’ A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria Leonard Eron, 87, Is Dead; Researcher on TV’s Tie to Violent Conduct Alfred D. Chandler Jr., a Business Historian, Dies at 88 California: Man Is Ordered to Stay Away From Wiesel Ohio: Aircraft Crash Over Suburban Cincinnati New Hampshire: McCain Dismisses State Campaign Manager Price of a Stamp Continues Its Upward March Filmmaker Hits Back at Inquiry Over Cuba Trip Damaged Shuttle Tank Is Called Ready for Flight Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 It’s Not ‘American Idol,’ but Subway Station Auditions Draw Crowd in Washington Musicians at open auditions by the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority hoped to be selected as entertainers. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys More legislators are worried about the dangers of driving while texting with a BlackBerry or other mobile device. The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare Teen Certified As Deputy Coroner Blue Angels Regroup for Show After Crash Obituaries in the News Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban 4 Arrested in K.C. Prostitution Raids Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics What’s new in technology? Continuous coverage of business news. Buy, sell or rent a home. Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. Buy, sell or research a car.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/12/us/12virginia.html?ex=1336622400&en=7b78d457ae7430af&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Tears Are Mixed Are Mixed Pool photo by Sam Dean The parents of Matthew Gregory Gwaltney, who was killed in the shooting on the Virginia Tech campus, hugged a professor who accepted his degree in his absence. 2007 BLACKSBURG, Va., May 11 — Commencement at was supposed to be a moment for parents to watch their children take a symbolic step. From a youthful safe haven, students would graduate into a larger, less predictable world. Skip to next paragraph Mixed Mood Melanie Blanding for memorial to the victims of the shootings at Virginia Tech. Thousands assembled to listen to speakers on Friday at Cassell Coliseum. Virginia Tech says 3,600 seniors are graduating this month, with most receiving degrees in smaller departmental ceremonies. But that harsh unpredictability came last month after the nation’s deadliest shooting rampage here, and on Friday, as thousands of parents arrived for graduation ceremonies, it was hard to tell the tears of joy from those of sadness. “This is supposed to be a celebration,” said Bryan Cloyd, who is a parent of one of the slain students and a professor on campus. “But there is a cloud over the campus, and that makes it more difficult for graduates and their families to experience graduation the way they should.” Mr. Cloyd overcame an initial reluctance to join the festivities in order to receive an honorary degree for his 18-year-old daughter, Austin. “We’re also looking for any healing we can get,” he added. During the evening ceremony in the football stadium, students shared giddy hugs and tossed their tassels. In quieter moments, they also spoke of feelings of guilt and the uncomfortable celebrity of having survived when 32 others had died at a student’s hand. A large video screen flashed photographs of the victims. Faculty members regaled proud parents with classroom anecdotes. They also said they still struggled to find the right words to capture the conflicting mix of emotions. Several speakers at the ceremony did not mention the shooting at all, instead dispensing advice eternal to all commencements. But the keynote speaker, retired Gen. of the Army, former commander of the United States Central Command, expressed his condolences. “Adversity has a way of challenging all of us, sooner or later,” he said. “How we collectively bear up to the pressures of unexpected tragedy, how we care for and honor those who suffer loss, how we hold on to our values despite the seductive lure of simple, quick and easy solutions to the complex problems we face — how we deal with such things defines us forever.” Virginia Tech’s president, Charles W. Steger, reassured the crowd: “Please know that moving on is not the same as forgetting. We shall not forget.” Caroline Merrey, a senior, said she hoped graduation and summer would lessen a haunting sense of guilt. “There are lots of days when I think I should have gone back and done something,” said Ms. Merrey, who leapt from a classroom window while her engineering professor, , blocked the classroom door temporarily keeping the student gunman at bay. “I’m lucky that I didn’t get shot and I’m still here. But I feel like what I did was a cheap way out.” Professor Librescu, 76, died of gunshot wounds. Ms. Merrey said she planned to move to Chicago, where her relatives live, and to start looking for a job in engineering. “Graduation is hard enough,” she said. “It’s even harder with these emotions, all the media, and the reminders everywhere of what happened.” In an afternoon ceremony for about 1,200 graduate students, a crowd of several thousand stood and clapped as faculty members embraced some of the families of the nine slain graduate students. All nine were awarded posthumous degrees. About 3,600 seniors graduate this year, most receiving their diplomas in smaller departmental ceremonies this weekend. The poet Nikki Giovanni, an English professor who taught the gunman, , was asked to speak at her department’s ceremony on Saturday. It will be a hard speech to give, she said. “You have this elephant in the room, and you don’t know how to tame it,” Ms. Giovanni said. “You can’t dwell on what happened, but you can’t overlook it either.” Still, she said, her job was easier than others. She will not need to write much new material because her department requested that she once again deliver her poem “We Are Virginia Tech,” which she first read at a convocation days after the shooting. The poem became an emotional turning point in that ceremony, bringing a somber crowd to its feet. The Saturday commencement address will be the last time she reads the poem publicly because she does not want it to become the defining voice of the tragedy, she said. For Ishwar K. Puri, the year ended less with sorrow than with an overwhelming sense of awe at the generosity of strangers. Dr. Puri, the chairman of the department of engineering science and mechanics, said his students and faculty members were blocked from their laboratories when the university closed Norris Hall, the classroom building where most of the victims were killed. As their research ground to a halt, so did their ability to apply for further financing or jobs. But generous offers arrived almost immediately, he said, including paid sabbaticals, student internships and scores of donated computers. And yet, looking toward summer, Dr. Puri said he could not help but feel dread, too. He will have to write job announcements to replace two of his department’s slain professors. “Doing that strikes you with the finality of it all,” he said. “How, really, do you replace people who were colleagues, friends, individuals? You can’t.” EDUCATION; Deciding When Student Writing Crosses the Line Privacy Laws Slow Efforts To Widen Gun-Buyer Data Torn by University Shootings, Virginia Town Turns Inward to Mend Virginia Ends A Loophole In Gun Laws Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Murders and Attempted Murders Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html National News - All Headlines New Hampshire, Soft Sell Eases Vaccine Fears Cheryl Senter/The Wheat, 16, of Hooksett, N.H., being given an HPV vaccination this month at Sanders Family Medicine in Concord, N.H. The demand for a free vaccine against cervical cancer has been so high that physicians can’t satisfy all the requests. Tears Are Mixed During an evening ceremony, students shared hugs and in quieter moments they spoke of feelings of guilt. Photographs: Mixed Mood Giuliani Takes On G.O.P. Orthodoxy on Social Issues By MARC SANTORA and ADAM NAGOURNEY Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Republicans needed to be tolerant of dissenting views on abortion rights, gun control and gay rights to retain the White House. Giuliani in His Own Words Suspects in Army Base Terror Plot Are Held Without Bail The six men charged in connection with a plot to attack the Fort Dix military reservation were ordered held without bail on Friday by a federal magistrate. Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official By the time Monica M. Goodling resigned, she had revamped personnel practices at the agency. U.S. Won&#8217;t Limit Detainees&#8217; Visits With Attorneys The Justice Department withdrew one of its proposals to tighten restrictions on lawyers representing detainees at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. Pentagon Opens Inquiry of Troop-Support Group By DAVID S. CLOUD The Pentagon is looking into whether Defense Department officials might have engaged in improper fund-raising. Spy Chief Backs Study of Impact of Warming Town Spared, but Wildfire Still Burns on Catalina Visit by Bush Tests Beliefs and Hospitality of Students at a Catholic College Prosecutors Drop All Charges in Boston Terrorism Scare Doctor Grafted Skin to Aid Drug Dealers, U.S. Authorities Say Rudolph W. Giuliani: In His Own Words About New York: The Rings of Giuliani Romney Aides Say His Worth Is at Least $260 Million Edwards to Ask Antiwar Stand of Americans On Politics: In the Spotlight, a Bid for a Winner to Take All Booker to Endorse Obama, Calling Him a ‘Voice for Change’ A Father’s Pain and an Empty Pizzeria Leonard Eron, 87, Is Dead; Researcher on TV’s Tie to Violent Conduct Alfred D. Chandler Jr., a Business Historian, Dies at 88 California: Man Is Ordered to Stay Away From Wiesel Ohio: Aircraft Crash Over Suburban Cincinnati New Hampshire: McCain Dismisses State Campaign Manager Price of a Stamp Continues Its Upward March Filmmaker Hits Back at Inquiry Over Cuba Trip Damaged Shuttle Tank Is Called Ready for Flight Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. Romney Works to Put Skeptics’ Doubts to Rest Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights Majority of Iraq Lawmakers Seek Timetable for U.S. Exit Cheney, on Carrier, Sends Warning to Iran Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Burglary Charge Is Costly for Rutgers Class President from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 It’s Not ‘American Idol,’ but Subway Station Auditions Draw Crowd in Washington Musicians at open auditions by the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority hoped to be selected as entertainers. At Commencement, a Call for Religious Literacy For a long time, quite a few people assumed that a major point of higher education was to put religion behind you. Hands on the Wheel, Not on the BlackBerry Keys More legislators are worried about the dangers of driving while texting with a BlackBerry or other mobile device. The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Calif. Island Survives Wildfire Scare Teen Certified As Deputy Coroner Blue Angels Regroup for Show After Crash Obituaries in the News Minnesota Lawmakers Pass Smoking Ban 4 Arrested in K.C. Prostitution Raids Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Colleagues Cite Partisan Focus by Justice Official New Mayor but Familiar Issues on Dallas&#8217;s Horizon Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Wildfire Threatens a Southern California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Wildfire Threatens a California Resort Island Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Liberal Case for Gun Rights Helps Sway Judiciary Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix Critic of Corps of Engineers Says Levee Repairs for New Orleans Show Signs of Flaws College Loan Official Resigns 50 Years Later, Little Rock Can't Escape Race U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. Looking to buy a new car? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15bush.html?ex=1336881600&en=6dfde38f63a3ec2b&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Doug Mills/The Bush, with officials from three departments, heading to the Rose Garden on Monday for a statement. 2007 , May 14 — President Bush announced on Monday that he had directed his administration to begin the long process of establishing higher fuel efficiency standards for new cars. But officials said that it was unclear if at the end of that process Mr. Bush would take it upon himself to raise the gas mileage of the nation’s automobiles, which has not significantly increased in decades. And Mr. Bush, speaking in the Rose Garden on Monday afternoon, said nothing would be put into effect until the regulatory process was completed at the end of 2008, just weeks before the end of his term. Environmental groups, which have long called for substantial increases in the government-mandated fuel standards, expressed skepticism that the administration would enact new standards without Congressional action, and dissatisfaction that Mr. Bush had not offered specifics. And Representative Edward J. Markey , Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and , called the announcement “a stall tactic.” Mr. Bush’s announcement came during a period of new headlines about resurgent gasoline prices, as well as international and domestic political pressure to control American emissions of heat-trapping gases from burning petroleum and other fossil fuels. It comes six weeks after the Supreme Court, rebuffing the administration’s arguments, ruled in favor of states that were seeking new federal controls on these emissions from automobiles. The court found on April 2 that carbon dioxide, the principal heat-trapping gas, is a pollutant under the Clean Air Act and must be regulated by the unless the agency scientifically determines that it does not contribute to climate change or that action is not necessary. A growing scientific consensus holds that carbon dioxide emissions are a serious problem that ought to be addressed urgently. The E.P.A. administrator, Stephen Johnson, said during a teleconference with reporters on Monday that the administration was not arguing otherwise. “We accept the Supreme Court’s decision,” Mr. Johnson said, hailing what he said was “the first regulatory step to craft a proposal to control greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles.” Mr. Bush began the process with an executive order directing the E.P.A., the Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy and the Department of Agriculture to explore regulatory options to enact a proposal he announced in his State of the Union address earlier, which set a goal of reducing the projected growth of oil consumption within 10 years to a level 20 percent lower than current forecasts. Officials have expressed frustration that Congress has not enacted his plan, based on efficiency standards as well as incentives for alternative fuels, which environmentalists have harshly criticized as insufficient. Mr. Bush said on Monday that he still preferred Congressional action to executive action and that his officials would “work with Congress to pass the 20-in-10 bill.” He said he had directed his cabinet secretaries to complete the regulatory process by the end of 2008 and to “evaluate the benefits and costs before they put forth the new regulation.” The president has opposed setting across-the-board standards of the kind that Congress imposed decades ago, preferring flexibility to account for vehicle size and safety specifications, said Scott Stanzel, a White House spokesman. , Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, said in a statement that the Senate would move forward with its own proposals, which include raising average passenger car fuel standards to 35 miles per gallon over 10 years from 25 m.p.g.. But, he said of the president, “if he brings forward proposals that make legal, economic and environmental sense, we will work with him as we legislate.” Mr. Johnson, of the E.P.A., said that if the administration moved forward with the new rules, they would go into effect by the end of 2008. Officials said the review would also consider regulatory avenues toward increasing the production of alternative and renewable fuels to 35 billion gallons a year, which would be significantly above the current mandate. Environmental advocates said that taking many months to propose new rules, receive public comment and issue them in final form was reasonable. But they said Monday’s announcement gave them no reason to abandon their doubts about the probable result. “This really amounts to saying, ‘Trust us, we’re doing something,’ ” said David Doniger, policy director for the climate center of the Natural Resources Defense Council , which was a party to the Supreme Court case. “It’s a clever effort, maybe a half-clever effort, to slip out of a corner. We haven’t been promised any specific reduction in global warming pollution, or any specific increase in the efficiency in cars.” He said the president’s directive seemed to limit the E.P.A.’s flexibility by requiring that it act with sister agencies, meaning, “they can only walk as fast as the slowest one of them.” Joan Claybrook, president of , a public interest group, criticized the president’s plan for relying on his “20-in-10” proposal as a starting point because of its large reliance on alternative fuels, which “opens the door for coal-to-liquids based fuel, which has the potential to emit more than twice as much carbon dioxide as gasoline.” She called on Congress to set standards legislatively. Arguments in Mileage Lawsuit SAN FRANCISCO, May 14 — Lawyers representing California and 10 other states gave arguments here on Monday in a lawsuit intended to force the government to increase gas mileage requirements for minivans, pickups and sport utility vehicles. The suit, filed in November, asks the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to force the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to conduct an environmental impact study of fuel efficiency standards announced in April 2006. Those rules, which require automakers to act by 2010, raised fuel efficiency requirements by a little over a mile per gallon. Attorney General Jerry Brown of California said the rules failed to take into account how man-made pollution affected the environment, as well as ignored political instability in the Middle East and the development of newer, cleaner fuels. “They didn’t consider global warming; they didn’t consider alternative technologies; therefore they didn’t do their job,” said Mr. Brown, standing on the steps of the courthouse. “It doesn’t make any sense from a science point of view or a homeland security point of view.” Charles Miller, a spokesman for the Department of Justice, said the department had no comment. and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals National Briefing | Northwest: Washington: Fish Protection Lags, Court Agrees Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade WHITE HOUSE MEMO; The President Shows His Environmentalist Colors Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15bush.html Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Doug Mills/The Bush, with officials from three departments, heading to the Rose Garden on Monday for a statement. 2007 , May 14 — President Bush announced on Monday that he had directed his administration to begin the long process of establishing higher fuel efficiency standards for new cars. But officials said that it was unclear if at the end of that process Mr. Bush would take it upon himself to raise the gas mileage of the nation’s automobiles, which has not significantly increased in decades. And Mr. Bush, speaking in the Rose Garden on Monday afternoon, said nothing would be put into effect until the regulatory process was completed at the end of 2008, just weeks before the end of his term. Environmental groups, which have long called for substantial increases in the government-mandated fuel standards, expressed skepticism that the administration would enact new standards without Congressional action, and dissatisfaction that Mr. Bush had not offered specifics. And Representative Edward J. Markey , Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and , called the announcement “a stall tactic.” Mr. Bush’s announcement came during a period of new headlines about resurgent gasoline prices, as well as international and domestic political pressure to control American emissions of heat-trapping gases from burning petroleum and other fossil fuels. It comes six weeks after the Supreme Court, rebuffing the administration’s arguments, ruled in favor of states that were seeking new federal controls on these emissions from automobiles. The court found on April 2 that carbon dioxide, the principal heat-trapping gas, is a pollutant under the Clean Air Act and must be regulated by the unless the agency scientifically determines that it does not contribute to climate change or that action is not necessary. A growing scientific consensus holds that carbon dioxide emissions are a serious problem that ought to be addressed urgently. The E.P.A. administrator, Stephen Johnson, said during a teleconference with reporters on Monday that the administration was not arguing otherwise. “We accept the Supreme Court’s decision,” Mr. Johnson said, hailing what he said was “the first regulatory step to craft a proposal to control greenhouse gas emissions from new motor vehicles.” Mr. Bush began the process with an executive order directing the E.P.A., the Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy and the Department of Agriculture to explore regulatory options to enact a proposal he announced in his State of the Union address earlier, which set a goal of reducing the projected growth of oil consumption within 10 years to a level 20 percent lower than current forecasts. Officials have expressed frustration that Congress has not enacted his plan, based on efficiency standards as well as incentives for alternative fuels, which environmentalists have harshly criticized as insufficient. Mr. Bush said on Monday that he still preferred Congressional action to executive action and that his officials would “work with Congress to pass the 20-in-10 bill.” He said he had directed his cabinet secretaries to complete the regulatory process by the end of 2008 and to “evaluate the benefits and costs before they put forth the new regulation.” The president has opposed setting across-the-board standards of the kind that Congress imposed decades ago, preferring flexibility to account for vehicle size and safety specifications, said Scott Stanzel, a White House spokesman. , Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader, said in a statement that the Senate would move forward with its own proposals, which include raising average passenger car fuel standards to 35 miles per gallon over 10 years from 25 m.p.g.. But, he said of the president, “if he brings forward proposals that make legal, economic and environmental sense, we will work with him as we legislate.” Mr. Johnson, of the E.P.A., said that if the administration moved forward with the new rules, they would go into effect by the end of 2008. Officials said the review would also consider regulatory avenues toward increasing the production of alternative and renewable fuels to 35 billion gallons a year, which would be significantly above the current mandate. Environmental advocates said that taking many months to propose new rules, receive public comment and issue them in final form was reasonable. But they said Monday’s announcement gave them no reason to abandon their doubts about the probable result. “This really amounts to saying, ‘Trust us, we’re doing something,’ ” said David Doniger, policy director for the climate center of the Natural Resources Defense Council , which was a party to the Supreme Court case. “It’s a clever effort, maybe a half-clever effort, to slip out of a corner. We haven’t been promised any specific reduction in global warming pollution, or any specific increase in the efficiency in cars.” He said the president’s directive seemed to limit the E.P.A.’s flexibility by requiring that it act with sister agencies, meaning, “they can only walk as fast as the slowest one of them.” Joan Claybrook, president of , a public interest group, criticized the president’s plan for relying on his “20-in-10” proposal as a starting point because of its large reliance on alternative fuels, which “opens the door for coal-to-liquids based fuel, which has the potential to emit more than twice as much carbon dioxide as gasoline.” She called on Congress to set standards legislatively. Arguments in Mileage Lawsuit SAN FRANCISCO, May 14 — Lawyers representing California and 10 other states gave arguments here on Monday in a lawsuit intended to force the government to increase gas mileage requirements for minivans, pickups and sport utility vehicles. The suit, filed in November, asks the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to force the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to conduct an environmental impact study of fuel efficiency standards announced in April 2006. Those rules, which require automakers to act by 2010, raised fuel efficiency requirements by a little over a mile per gallon. Attorney General Jerry Brown of California said the rules failed to take into account how man-made pollution affected the environment, as well as ignored political instability in the Middle East and the development of newer, cleaner fuels. “They didn’t consider global warming; they didn’t consider alternative technologies; therefore they didn’t do their job,” said Mr. Brown, standing on the steps of the courthouse. “It doesn’t make any sense from a science point of view or a homeland security point of view.” Charles Miller, a spokesman for the Department of Justice, said the department had no comment. and Democrats in Accord on Trade Deals National Briefing | Northwest: Washington: Fish Protection Lags, Court Agrees Break Seen In Logjam Over Trade WHITE HOUSE MEMO; The President Shows His Environmentalist Colors million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands The Times/Ellis Island Legacy Keepsake N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Who might take Jerry Falwell's place as a religious-political spokesperson for the right? Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. &#x00bb; WHEN THE WALL CAME DOWN N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/obituaries/15cnd-falwell.html?ex=1336881600&en=475295bc07f015f1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 2007 , the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and helped bring the language and passions of religious conservatives into American politics, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73 years old. Skip to next paragraph The Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Who might take Jerry Falwell's place as a religious-political spokesperson for the right? Mr. Falwell had a history of heart problems, and probably died of cardiac arrythmia, his physician, Dr. Carl Moore, said today. Mr. Falwell had no pulse when he was found, the doctor said, and efforts to revive him at the university and on the way to the hospital were unsuccessful. Dr. Moore said Mr. Falwell was pronounced dead at 12:40 p.m. Eastern time. The university’s executive vice president, Ronald Godwin, told a news conference this afternoon that he had had breakfast with Mr. Falwell at 8:30 a.m., and said the university mourns his loss. “Dr. Falwell is a huge, huge leader here in this area and in the nation at large," Dr. Godwin said. Mr. Falwell went from being a Baptist preacher in Lynchburg to carving out a powerful role in national electoral politics. He was at home in both the millennial world of fundamentalist Christianity and the earthly blood sport of the political arena. As much as anyone, he helped create the religious right as a political force, defined the issues that would energize it for decades and cemented its ties to the He came to prominence first as a televangelist, through his “Old-Time Gospel Hour” programs, and then as the leader of the Moral Majority, an organization whose very name drew a vivid, divisive battle line in the sand of American politics. After the organization disbanded in 1989, he remained a familiar and powerful figure, supporting when he ran for president, as he did his father George H. W. Bush before him, mobilizing conservatives and finding his way into a thicket of controversies. Mr. Falwell grew up in a household that he described as a battleground between the forces of God and the powers of Satan. In his public life he often had to walk a fine line between the certitudes of fundamentalist religion, in which the word of God was absolute and inviolate, and the ambiguities of mainstream politics, in which a message warmly received at his Thomas Road Baptist Church might not play as well on the NBC Nightly News. As a result, he was a lightning rod for controversy and caricature. He apologized, for example, after televised remarks suggesting that the 9/11 terrorist attacks reflected God’s judgment on a nation spiritually weakened by the American Civil Liberties Union and supporters of gay rights, and after he called Muhammad a terrorist. He was ridiculed for an article in his National Liberty Journal that suggested that Tinky Winky, a character in the “Teletubbies” children’s show, could be a hidden homosexual signal, because the character was purple, had a triangle on its head and carried a handbag. But behind the controversies was a shrewd, savvy operator with an original vision for affecting political and moral change. He rallied religious conservatives to the political arena at a time when most fundamentalists and other conservative religious leaders were inclined to stay away, and helped pulled off what once seemed the impossible task of uniting religious conservatives from many faiths and doctrines over what they had in common, rather than focusing on the differences that kept them apart. He had numerous failures as well as successes, and always remained a divisive figure, demonized on the left in much the way that Senator or Jane Fonda were on the right. But political experts agree he was an enormously influential figure. “Behind the idea of the Moral Majority was this notion that there could be a coalition of these different religious groups that all agree on abortion and homosexuality and other issues even if they never agreed on how to read the Bible or the nature of God,” said John Green, director of the Ray C. Bliss Institute of Applied Politics at the University of Akron, who studies the religious conservative movement. “That was a real innovation,” Mr. Green said. “And even if that’s an idea that did not completely originate with Falwell, it’s certainly an idea he developed and championed independently of others. It was a very important insight, and it’s had a huge influence on American politics.” Jerry Lamon Falwell was born Aug. 11, 1933, in Lynchburg, Va. His ancestors there dated back to 1669, and his more immediate ones lived as if they were characters in the pageant of sin and redemption that formed his world view. His paternal grandfather, Charles William Falwell, embittered by the death of his wife and a favorite nephew, was a vocal and decisive atheist who would not go to church, and who ridiculed those who did. His father, Carey H. Falwell, was a flamboyant entrepreneur who opened his first grocery store when he was 22. Soon he was operating 17 service stations, many with little restaurants and stores attached. He built oil storage tanks, owned an oil company, and in 1927 founded American Bus Lines, which installed old battery-operated movie projectors to show Charlie Chaplin and Laurel and Hardy movies to riders. &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Adirondacks Open Camp, 1903 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html?partner=rssnyt National News - All Headlines Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Post a Comment: What Will Be Falwell's Legacy? Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency By JIM RUTENBERG and EDMUND L. ANDREWS President Bush said nothing would be put into effect until the regulatory process was completed, just weeks before the end of his term. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Guantánamo Detainees’ Suit Challenges Fairness of Military’s Repeat Hearings “Do-overs,” as some critics call them, are among the most controversial parts of the military’s system of determining whether detainees are enemy combatants. After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. Charities Settle Dispute on Split of Surprise Gift Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Justices’ Vote in Death Case Is Close Again, but Differing After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case House Democrats Set to Move on New Fund-Raising Rules Pentagon Blocks 13 Web Sites From Military Computers U.N. Official Says He’s Been Denied Access to U.S. Immigrant Jails Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Cruise Ship Runs Aground Off Alaska Coast Clinton and Obama Visits Suggest New Clout for Two States Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Case Highlights Sex Abuse at Church, Beyond Priests States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions Details Emerge on Battles With Law by Miller&#8217;s Cousin Gingrich Steps Near to Decision on ’08 California: Santa Catalina Fire Is Out Colorado: Train Evacuated After Bomb Talk Protest Against Easing of Wolf Protection Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Texas: 4 Suspended in Youth Agency Scandal Alabama: 2 Die in Foiled Robbery Florida: More Evacuations Are Possible Pennsylvania: Pier Operator Pleads Guilty Maryland: Canal Closed After Sinking Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » This Land: For Sale in Utah Dan Barry describes how buying land sight unseen over the Internet may not be the wisest approach. Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings Television Evangelist Falwell Dies at 73 DNA Clears N.J. Man of 2 Child Murders AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Search on in S.C. for Missing Officer Students Sickened When Pesticides Drift Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Purple Heron, Plate 256 Get politics at home. 100% of The Times delivered for 50% off. Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Buy, sell or research a car.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15scare.html?ex=1336881600&en=7e2f6af7f747216d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee 2007 MURFREESBORO, Tenn., May 14 — A teacher and an assistant principal were suspended Monday for a prank in which sixth graders on a sleepover trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby and were ordered to hide in silence. School officials in this small city, about 35 miles south of Nashville, took the action against the teacher, Quentin Mastin, and the assistant principal, Don Bartch, because of the incident Thursday during a trip by a group of Scales Elementary School pupils to secluded Fall Creek Falls State Park, a school spokeswoman, Cheryl Harris, said. “It was a spontaneous prank that got out of hand,” Ms. Harris said. The leaders usually pull a prank on the students during the weeklong trip, typically a spine-chilling ghost story, and the 69 children had been told to expect one this year, she said. But on the trip’s last night, Mr. Mastin told the children that a park ranger had warned that there was a gunman roving the park, and that they should take cover. While the children hid under tables in a dormitory, a chaperone pulled a hood up over her head and rattled the door from the outside. Some children wept in fear in the dark, parents have said in news accounts. “At first I thought I was going to die,” a student, Shay Naylor, 11, told The Tennessean newspaper in Nashville. “A teacher told us, ‘We just got a call that there’s been a random shooting.’ I was freaked out. I thought it was serious.” Afterward, the adult leaders turned the lights on and admitted it was a prank, praising the students for following what are called “code red” emergency school procedures. Ms. Harris said the choice of prank was unfortunate, particularly given the recent shootings at University, in which 32 students and teachers were killed. “I don’t think this person, this lead teacher, was even associating what he was doing with that, unfortunately,” Ms. Harris said. Some parents, who gave their consent for the trip but were not told of the prank beforehand, were not amused to learn about it. More than 40 parents attended a meeting with the principal on Saturday, and some parents have reported that the incident terrified their children. Jessica Giles, an assistant professor of psychology at the Peabody College of Education at , said such an incident could create lasting anxiety, and lead students to doubt their teachers in a real emergency. TALES; Dance Fever P.E. Classes Turn to Video Game That Works Legs, Not Thumbs Bronx Students Learn Filmmaking, Tribeca Style THIS LAND; Planning a Path Through Life on the Walk to School Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15scare.html 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee 2007 MURFREESBORO, Tenn., May 14 — A teacher and an assistant principal were suspended Monday for a prank in which sixth graders on a sleepover trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby and were ordered to hide in silence. School officials in this small city, about 35 miles south of Nashville, took the action against the teacher, Quentin Mastin, and the assistant principal, Don Bartch, because of the incident Thursday during a trip by a group of Scales Elementary School pupils to secluded Fall Creek Falls State Park, a school spokeswoman, Cheryl Harris, said. “It was a spontaneous prank that got out of hand,” Ms. Harris said. The leaders usually pull a prank on the students during the weeklong trip, typically a spine-chilling ghost story, and the 69 children had been told to expect one this year, she said. But on the trip’s last night, Mr. Mastin told the children that a park ranger had warned that there was a gunman roving the park, and that they should take cover. While the children hid under tables in a dormitory, a chaperone pulled a hood up over her head and rattled the door from the outside. Some children wept in fear in the dark, parents have said in news accounts. “At first I thought I was going to die,” a student, Shay Naylor, 11, told The Tennessean newspaper in Nashville. “A teacher told us, ‘We just got a call that there’s been a random shooting.’ I was freaked out. I thought it was serious.” Afterward, the adult leaders turned the lights on and admitted it was a prank, praising the students for following what are called “code red” emergency school procedures. Ms. Harris said the choice of prank was unfortunate, particularly given the recent shootings at University, in which 32 students and teachers were killed. “I don’t think this person, this lead teacher, was even associating what he was doing with that, unfortunately,” Ms. Harris said. Some parents, who gave their consent for the trip but were not told of the prank beforehand, were not amused to learn about it. More than 40 parents attended a meeting with the principal on Saturday, and some parents have reported that the incident terrified their children. Jessica Giles, an assistant professor of psychology at the Peabody College of Education at , said such an incident could create lasting anxiety, and lead students to doubt their teachers in a real emergency. TALES; Dance Fever P.E. Classes Turn to Video Game That Works Legs, Not Thumbs Bronx Students Learn Filmmaking, Tribeca Style THIS LAND; Planning a Path Through Life on the Walk to School million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/education/15cnd-report.html?ex=1336881600&en=ded85eacc0ef9515&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Published: May 15, 2007 Only one-quarter of high school students who take a full set of college-preparatory courses — four years of English and three each of mathematics, science and social studies — are well prepared for college, according to a new study of last year’s high school graduates released today by ACT, the Iowa testing organization. Skip to next paragraph Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum Executive Summary of Report The report analyzed approximately 1.2 million students who took the ACT college admissions test and graduated from high school last June. The study predicted whether the students had a good chance of scoring C or better in introductory college courses, based on their test scores and the success rates of past test takers. The study concluded that only 26 percent were ready for college-level work in all four core areas, while 19 percent were not adequately prepared in any of them. “It has become increasingly apparent that, while taking the right number of courses is certainly better than not, it is no longer enough,” the report said. Cynthia B. Schmeiser, president and chief operating officer of ACT’s education division, said she was stunned by the low level of accomplishment for students who had taken the core curriculum, which was recommended 24 years ago in “A Nation at Risk,” a United States Department of Education commission report that prompted widespread efforts to improve American education. “What’s shocking about this, is that since ‘A Nation at Risk,’ we have been encouraging students to take this core curriculum with the unspoken promise that when they do, they will be college-ready,” she said. “What we have found, now, is that when they do, only one in four is ready for college-level work.” ACT reported that 54 percent of last year’s graduates who took the ACT exam said they had taken at least a core curriculum. Those who had not taken this minimum curriculum fared even worse: only 14 percent were judged ready for college work in all four subject areas, while 36 percent were not prepared in any. The report released today, entitled “Rigor at Risk: Reaffirming Quality in the High School Core Curriculum,” is a sign of growing attention to secondary education, after decades of emphasis on elementary and middle schools, and to what students are really learning in high school. In 1999, Clifford Adelman, then a researcher at the federal Department of Education, found that the strength of high school work was the most important factor in determining college success, even more than the socioeconomic status of a student’s family. The new report, which cites Mr. Adelman’s research, makes the case that many high school courses are not providing the necessary quality that he described. “Course titles don’t matter nearly as much as what is taught and how it is taught,” said Michael Cohen, president of Achieve, a Washington-based organization that works with states on academic standards. “There is tremendous variation in what is taught in a course called biology or algebra 2.” Kati Haycock, director of the Education Trust, another Washington-based group that advocates standard-setting, said that as she traveled around the country, she found many schools not offering challenging work. “When you look at the assignments these kids get, it is just appalling,” she said. “A course may be labeled college-preparatory English. But if the kids get more than three-paragraph-long assignments, it is unusual. Or they’ll be asked to color a poster. We say ‘How about doing analysis?’ and they look at us like we are demented.” Other researchers have also found problems with the rigor of high school education. A study released last year by the National Center for Educational Accountability in Austin, Tex., for example, found that the majority of low-income students who received credit for a college-preparatory curriculum in Texas needed remedial help when they got to college Chrys Dougherty, the center’s research director, said the ACT report showed that the problem found in Texas was widespread, and that “many high school students are not learning the content implied by the titles of the courses in which they are enrolled.” ACT officials and other education analysts said that while educators must continue to improve what students learn in elementary and middle schools, so they will be ready to tackle more rigorous high school work, states must also begin to specify course standards and increase the capability of teachers in high school. The ACT report also found that students who took more courses than the minimum core curriculum performed better on their exams, and had a greater chance of doing well in college. But even then, college readiness was not assured. The report said that more advanced coursework was necessary to be well prepared after graduation, and that a rigorous set of core courses should achieve that. Next Article in Education (1 of 5) Article in Education (1 of 5) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html National News - All Headlines Rev. Jerry Falwell spoke at the SBC Pastors' Conference on June 20, 2005 in Nashville, Tenn. Jerry Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Post a Comment: What Will Be Falwell's Legacy? Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency By JIM RUTENBERG and EDMUND L. ANDREWS President Bush said nothing would be put into effect until the regulatory process was completed, just weeks before the end of his term. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Guantánamo Detainees’ Suit Challenges Fairness of Military’s Repeat Hearings “Do-overs,” as some critics call them, are among the most controversial parts of the military’s system of determining whether detainees are enemy combatants. After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. Charities Settle Dispute on Split of Surprise Gift Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Justices’ Vote in Death Case Is Close Again, but Differing After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case House Democrats Set to Move on New Fund-Raising Rules Pentagon Blocks 13 Web Sites From Military Computers U.N. Official Says He’s Been Denied Access to U.S. Immigrant Jails Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Cruise Ship Runs Aground Off Alaska Coast Clinton and Obama Visits Suggest New Clout for Two States Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Case Highlights Sex Abuse at Church, Beyond Priests States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions Details Emerge on Battles With Law by Miller&#8217;s Cousin Gingrich Steps Near to Decision on ’08 California: Santa Catalina Fire Is Out Colorado: Train Evacuated After Bomb Talk Protest Against Easing of Wolf Protection Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Texas: 4 Suspended in Youth Agency Scandal Alabama: 2 Die in Foiled Robbery Florida: More Evacuations Are Possible Pennsylvania: Pier Operator Pleads Guilty Maryland: Canal Closed After Sinking Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » This Land: For Sale in Utah Dan Barry describes how buying land sight unseen over the Internet may not be the wisest approach. Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; Gonzales: Deputy Was Pointman on Firings Television Evangelist Falwell Dies at 73 DNA Clears N.J. Man of 2 Child Murders AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Search on in S.C. for Missing Officer Students Sickened When Pesticides Drift Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee University of Texas Fires Director of Financial Aid Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Get politics at home. 100% of The Times delivered for 50% off. Looking for a job? Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. Looking to buy a new car? Buy, sell or rent a home.
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html?partner=rssnyt National News - All Headlines Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Post a Comment: What Will Be Falwell's Legacy? Times Topics: Jerry Falwell Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency By JIM RUTENBERG and EDMUND L. ANDREWS President Bush said nothing would be put into effect until the regulatory process was completed, just weeks before the end of his term. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Guantánamo Detainees’ Suit Challenges Fairness of Military’s Repeat Hearings “Do-overs,” as some critics call them, are among the most controversial parts of the military’s system of determining whether detainees are enemy combatants. After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. Charities Settle Dispute on Split of Surprise Gift Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Justices’ Vote in Death Case Is Close Again, but Differing After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case House Democrats Set to Move on New Fund-Raising Rules Pentagon Blocks 13 Web Sites From Military Computers U.N. Official Says He’s Been Denied Access to U.S. Immigrant Jails Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Cruise Ship Runs Aground Off Alaska Coast Clinton and Obama Visits Suggest New Clout for Two States Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Case Highlights Sex Abuse at Church, Beyond Priests States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions Details Emerge on Battles With Law by Miller&#8217;s Cousin Gingrich Steps Near to Decision on ’08 California: Santa Catalina Fire Is Out Colorado: Train Evacuated After Bomb Talk Protest Against Easing of Wolf Protection Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Texas: 4 Suspended in Youth Agency Scandal Alabama: 2 Die in Foiled Robbery Florida: More Evacuations Are Possible Pennsylvania: Pier Operator Pleads Guilty Maryland: Canal Closed After Sinking Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Pentagon General to Be Iraq War Czar Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » This Land: For Sale in Utah Dan Barry describes how buying land sight unseen over the Internet may not be the wisest approach. Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 CIA Agent Testifies at Padilla Trial Child, Teen Swept Away by Colo. Flooding Search on in S.C. for Missing Officer AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Son of Professor Is Killed in Iraq Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Guantánamo Detainees&#8217; Suit Challenges Fairness of Military&#8217;s Repeat Hearings Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Whitey Ford Autographed Baseball Get politics at home. 100% of The Times delivered for 50% off. More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Get the latest business news Browse movie reviews from 1913. Plan what to see, eat and do. Buy, sell or rent a home. Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html?ex=1336881600&en=6a8db6d32dac7f31&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Find Advice & Resources Online More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/15/us/15flood.html Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Peter Newcomb for goose swims by a 23-foot figure of William Clark that is surrounded by the waters of the Mississippi River along the St. Louis riverfront. 2007 ST. LOUIS, May 14 — Miles and miles of bigger and stronger levees have been built along the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers since the deadly floods of 1993, and millions of dollars have been spent on drainage improvements. Skip to next paragraph Where Commerce and Nature Clash The mile-and-a-half-long Chesterfield Commons strip mall is in an area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. Peter Newcomb for A. Busch IV, a founder of the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis, says he expected there to be some development on the flood plains after 1993, but not as much as has occurred. A levee separates the Chesterfield Commons strip mall from the Missouri River. Yet as the rush of water that caused the Missouri River to overflow its banks and submerge dozens of towns last week rolled toward St. Louis on Monday, attention was turned to a metropolitan region that since 1993 has seen runaway residential and commercial development in the rivers’ flood paths. About 28,000 homes have been built and more than 6,000 acres of commercial and industrial space developed on land that was underwater in 1993, according to research by Nicholas Pinter, a geologist who studies the region at Southern Illinois University in Carbondale. Building is happening on flood plains across Missouri, but most of the development is in the St. Louis area, and it is estimated to be worth more than $2.2 billion. Though scientists warn about the danger of such building, the Missouri government has subsidized some of it through tax financing for builders. “No one has really looked at the cumulative effect,” said Timothy M. Kusky, a professor of natural sciences at St. Louis University, who calculates that there has been more development on the Missouri River flood plain in the years since 1993 than at any other time in the history of the region. The good news for St. Louis right now is that forecasters say the two rivers will crest well below their 1993 levels by Tuesday, sparing the area significant flooding. But many scientists remain concerned that the effect of the new construction, should a levee break, could eventually be even more severe flooding. Levees constrict a river’s path and raise its water level, which causes higher, faster flow. A flood plain, conversely, exists in nature to absorb a river’s overflow. “The more levees we build, the higher we have to build them,” Professor Kusky said. “It’s a self-perpetuating problem.” Still, people have been drawn to the area, assured by the sense of security the levees provide. Disincentives beyond the possibility of flooding seem to be few. “This was absolutely a dodged bullet,” Professor Pinter said. “This could have been a very bad situation for St. Louis, but luckily it was a near-miss.” People living in the flood plains are eligible for the National Flood Insurance Program or for any private insurance they can secure, though the private alternatives are increasingly difficult to obtain. And they are entitled to whatever federal disaster relief is offered to the state after a flood, be it temporary housing or buyouts, said Butch Kinerney, a spokesman for the Federal Emergency Management Agency THF Realty Inc. used Missouri’s tax program, known as tax increment financing, to build what is said to be the largest strip mall in the country on land in the Chesterfield Valley area of St. Louis County that was submerged in the floods of 1993. The shopping center, which cost $275 million to build, opened in 1999 and now has more than two million square feet of retail space, mall officials said. The developers spent more than $35 million on levee and storm drainage improvements, replacing an old levee that had offered protection against a 100-year flood with a levee that met the standards for a 500-year flood. And, they said, they have brought jobs and revenue to a formerly sleepy part of the county. “We built the shopping center and interchange that opened the entire valley,” said Marian Nunn, the chief operating officer of THF Realty. “The difference is that the levee is maintained now, on top of being bigger, stronger and better. The risks are really substantially mitigated.” The company was able to use the special financing because Missouri allows it for projects in areas that are considered blighted, or where development is not likely to occur without help. “We will continue to build even more,” Ms. Nunn said. Faith in the levees seems to trump other concerns here. “We’re not even close to having any issues,” said Brian McGownd, the deputy director of public works in Chesterfield. Of the new levee, Mr. McGownd said, “We have 100 percent confidence that it’s done right, and the way it’s supposed to be, and that it will be a good, strong levee for many years.” Fear of flooding did not appear to scare off prospective buyers at the New Town at St. Charles, a housing development whose sales office hummed with activity on Sunday, even as the Missouri River was rising. Although the community is near the confluence of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers, residents are not required to have flood insurance, because they are beyond the 100-year flood plain. The location was a selling point for Ken Snider, a high school teacher from St. Louis. “It’s not going to flood here for another 100 years,” Mr. Snider said, “and I won’t be around by then.” But critics of the developments say someone else is likely to be around then, and taxpayers in general will carry the tab after the next disaster bailout. “If history tells us anything, it’s that levees once built eventually fail,” Professor Pinter said. “But instead of being farmland there, now it’s a strip mall or residential area, or a whole city.” The floods of 1993 killed 38 people and caused $16 billion in damage across the Midwest. More than 500 counties were declared federal disaster areas. Adolphus A. Busch IV, a member of the Anheuser-Busch brewing family who helped found the Great Rivers Habitat Alliance in St. Louis in 2000, is alarmed at the pace of development in the rivers’ paths after the 1993 flood. “That was the milestone for us,” Mr. Busch said. “At that point the federal government came in and did major buyouts, and people said, ‘Look, we’ve learned our lesson: no more development.’ Well, that lasted for about six or seven years.” He continued, “We always realized that there would be fringe development, but we never envisioned after 1993 that anyone would try to build major levees and enclose thousands of acres.” Some people already living in the flood plain at the time of the last big flood now say that it just makes economic sense for them to stay close to the river, and that it is an issue of personal-risk calculation and property rights. Doris Hulst, a 65-year-old school bus driver, is the sole homeowner on a 109-acre swath of land that once housed three trailer parks near the Missouri River in St. Charles County. “They all took the buyout,” Mrs. Hulst said of her neighbors who relocated after the flood. “I took the buyout on a trailer I owned across the street, but you didn’t make enough money to buy anything decent.” Today, Mrs. Hulst’s trailer is elevated on three rows of cinder blocks. “We’ll be fine as long as the Mississippi doesn’t back up,” she said. Alan Dooley, a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers , St. Louis District, said people, like water, had certain natural inclinations. “People have a tendency to locate near water,” Mr. Dooley said. “These people vote; they pay taxes. It’s kind of difficult to go through with a broad brush and say, ‘You all ought to get out of here.’ ” Malcolm Gay contributed reporting. Flooding Is Reviving a Debate On Government Role As Levees Hold, Midwest Sighs With Hope Missouri and Illinois Now See Autumn Flooding Sated Mississippi Surrenders Its Grip on St. Louis million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Find Advice & Resources Online More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. PRESIDENTS N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html National News - All Headlines Falwell, Leading Religious Conservative, Dies at 73 Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority, died today shortly after he was found unconscious in his office at Liberty University. Post a Comment: What Will Be Falwell's Legacy? Times Topics: Jerry Falwell Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains As water rushes toward St. Louis, attention is on runaway development that has occurred since the floods of 1993. In Study, College-Prep Classes Left Many Unready Only 26 percent of high school students who take the core courses are well prepared for college, the study says. Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency By JIM RUTENBERG and EDMUND L. ANDREWS President Bush said nothing would be put into effect until the regulatory process was completed, just weeks before the end of his term. U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company By JONATHAN D. GLATER The University of Texas has fired the director of financial aid at its Austin campus for improper conduct. 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Staff members were suspended on Monday over a prank in which sixth graders on a trip were told that a gunman was prowling nearby. Guantánamo Detainees’ Suit Challenges Fairness of Military’s Repeat Hearings “Do-overs,” as some critics call them, are among the most controversial parts of the military’s system of determining whether detainees are enemy combatants. After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Some agents for Humana have enrolled Medicare recipients in products that “they did not understand and did not want,” an official said. Charities Settle Dispute on Split of Surprise Gift Gonzales’s Deputy Quits Justice Department Justices’ Vote in Death Case Is Close Again, but Differing After 5 Years, Padilla Goes on Trial in Terror Case House Democrats Set to Move on New Fund-Raising Rules Pentagon Blocks 13 Web Sites From Military Computers U.N. Official Says He’s Been Denied Access to U.S. Immigrant Jails Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian Cruise Ship Runs Aground Off Alaska Coast Clinton and Obama Visits Suggest New Clout for Two States Bank’s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics Case Highlights Sex Abuse at Church, Beyond Priests States Fault MySpace on Predator Issues Lawyers Argue Legal Status of Gay Unions Details Emerge on Battles With Law by Miller&#8217;s Cousin Gingrich Steps Near to Decision on ’08 California: Santa Catalina Fire Is Out Colorado: Train Evacuated After Bomb Talk Protest Against Easing of Wolf Protection Utah: Voters Will Decide on Voucher Program Texas: 4 Suspended in Youth Agency Scandal Alabama: 2 Die in Foiled Robbery Florida: More Evacuations Are Possible Pennsylvania: Pier Operator Pleads Guilty Maryland: Canal Closed After Sinking Names of the Dead Read profiles of the men and women killed in the shootings share your thoughts and memories. : Recounting the Events reconstruction of the shootings, with maps and diagrams of campus buildings. : Sex Offenders and Civil Commitment Civil commitment for sex offenders is gaining favor with lawmakers even as its stated purpose is almost never met. : Faces of the Dead An interactive look at the American service members who have died in Iraq. Barely in Office, but G.O.P. Rivals Are Circling Obama Says He’d Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Pentagon General to Be Iraq War Czar Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 The Reach of War Today in TimesSelect » This Land: For Sale in Utah Dan Barry describes how buying land sight unseen over the Internet may not be the wisest approach. Some parents of children with Down syndrome want prospective parents to know the positive side of raising a child with the genetic condition. Kunal Sah, 13, hopes that winning the Scripps National Spelling Bee will bring attention to the plight of his parents, who were deported to India. Julia Preston reports on how Maria Brizelda Amaya's family is coping with her deportation. Infant Mortality: A Legacy of Poverty Erik Eckholm reports on the intractable problem of infant mortality in poor Mississippi communities. News from AP &#x00bb; TV Evangelist Jerry Falwell Dies at 73 CIA Agent Testifies at Padilla Trial Child, Teen Swept Away by Colo. Flooding Search on in S.C. for Missing Officer AP IMPACT: Laser Visas Are Rarely Used Son of Professor Is Killed in Iraq Find News By State Go to a State Page MOST POPULAR - U.S. Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Rev. Jerry Falwell , Moral Majority Founder, Dies at 73 Bank&#8217;s Report Says Wolfowitz Violated Ethics U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Bethel Journal: In Native Alaskan Villages, a Culture of Sorrow 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Oklahoma Chides Insurer in Medicare Marketing Case Guantánamo Detainees&#8217; Suit Challenges Fairness of Military&#8217;s Repeat Hearings Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq 6 Arrested in Plot to Attack Fort Dix College Loan Official Resigns U.S. Queries Filmmaker on Cuba Trip for Movie Bush Calls for Work for Higher Fuel Efficiency Harvard Task Force Calls for New Focus on Teaching and Not Just Research Agency Affirms Mandates for Driver's Licenses million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands PRESIDENTS Get politics at home. 100% of The Times delivered for 50% off. More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Get up close to politics & more for $3.15 a week. Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new on Broadway? Continuous coverage of business news.
