http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/31road.html Louisiana Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims Road Home, the Louisiana grant program for homeowners who lost their houses to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, is expected to cost far more than the $7.5 billion provided by the federal government, in part because many more families have applied than officials had anticipated. » As a result, Louisiana officials on Tuesday night set a July 31 deadline for applicants, who can receive up to $150,000 to repair or rebuild their houses. With the cutoff date, the state hopes to be able to figure out how much more money it needs to pay for the program; the shortfall is projected to be $2.9 billion. The financial woes of set off a frenzy of finger-pointing between federal and state officials, who blame one another for the projected shortfall. But it has stirred something close to despair among some Louisiana residents, who were already bemoaning the sluggish way the program has given out the money it does have; only 22,000 families statewide, out of 140,000 applicants, have received grants so far, for a total of $1.3 billion. The new problem has reinforced the fears of many in New Orleans that they are being abandoned by the federal government, even as it acknowledges that its levee system failed during Hurricane Katrina. “There’s no way they can ever make everybody whole, but they need to fix the thing they broke,” said Frank A. Silvestri, a New Orleans lawyer and co-founder of the Citizens’ Road Home Action Team, which has been critical of the program. Evidence that the program out of money has been building for several weeks as the state has finally begun making a significant number of grants since the inception of months ago. The grants have averaged about $76,000, which is more than the roughly $60,000 the state predicted last August. State officials say that many more houses turned out to have had severe damage than federal data indicated back when the program was created. They have also been surprised by a recent surge in applications, which are running at several hundred a day, almost two years after the storms, said Gentry Brann, director of communications for the program. The state also expected private insurance companies to cover a larger percentage of the damage, said Walter J. Leger Jr., a lawyer and member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, which created “Anecdotally, the companies aren’t paying,” Mr. Leger said. “National Flood Insurance paid out, but private insurers didn’t.” Insurance benefits are generally subtracted from grants awarded by the program. But Mr. Leger and other state officials concede that many homeowners may have preferred to try to get larger grants from the Road Home, rather than fight with their insurers. The Bush administration contends that the state itself created the shortfall by paying for home damage caused by wind, rather than limiting the program to flood damage. Insurance policies are more likely to cover wind damage than flood damage. The decision to pay for wind damage added about 43,000 houses to the likely total covered by the program, at a cost of about $2.6 billion, according to data from the office of Donald E. Powell, President Bush’s coordinator for Gulf Coast rebuilding. Even so, Mr. Powell “is not opposed to additional funding — if the state can make a clear case for more funds,” his spokeswoman, Susan Aspey, wrote in an e-mail message. “He wants to get this resolved as quickly as possible for the people of Louisiana, and he’s indicated his willingness to sit down with the governor and her staff to work towards that end.” State officials, from the governor on down, say the program has always covered wind damage, and that they do not understand why Mr. Powell is raising the issue so late in the game. The state had a similar run-in with the Department of Housing and Urban Development over the way it paid out the grant money, and ended up changing the program in April. Louisiana is also fighting the Federal Emergency Management Agency for more than $1 billion it was counting on for FEMA says it cannot release the money — intended for hazard-mitigation efforts like elevating houses — because against younger people by exempting people 65 and older from a requirement that grant recipients live in their rebuilt houses for three years. Further complicating the financial picture is the fact that the state treasury is running a budget surplus of about $3 billion, which some in Washington have argued should be used to bail out the Road Home. subcommittee that held a hearing on the program last week ways to fix it in a report to be released in June, said Stephanie Allen, a spokeswoman for Senator , the Louisiana Democrat who is chairwoman of the subcommittee. “She doesn’t think the federal government should be responsible for the entire bailout,” Ms. Allen said. “It should be a combined effort of the federal government and the state.” early access to articles from this Sunday's Times. Sign up for TimesSelect free for 14 days. Offers Steps to Ease Hurricane Aid Hurricane Survivors to Buy U.S. Trailers or Pay Rental Fee U.S. Gives Grants to 4 Gulf Coast States to Upgrade Disaster Housing FEMA Not Required to Restore Aid to Evacuees, Court Rules Federal Emergency Management Agency
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/politics/31thompson.html?ex=1338264000&en=56fa0d7b6ffb30a1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run Ann Johansson Senator Fred D. Thompson will begin raising money for a campaign for the Republican nomination. Senator of Tennessee has taken new steps that make it clear that he for the White House, potentially shaking up a field of candidates that has failed to strike a chord with the Republican base. His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. Ann Johansson Senator Fred Thompson greeted Boy Scouts after speaking in California to the Lincoln Club of Orange County on May 4. Mr. Thompson is creating a committee that will let him begin raising money on Monday toward a full-blown national campaign, advisers said Wednesday. They hope his name recognition as an actor and radio commentator, conservative stands on issues like and government spending, and strength in the South will differentiate him from the current crop of candidates. The disclosure of his intensifying activities sent ripples through the party, with the campaigns of two of the main Republican candidates checking with their deputies in Iowa and New Hampshire to monitor any hiring or fund-raising efforts by Mr. Thompson, 64. One campaign held a brief strategy session to review poll results on Mr. Thompson, and found him well-positioned even as an unannounced candidate. His moves come as have failed to coalesce around a candidate, as they struggle with the war in Iraq, President Bush’s unpopularity and questions about the party’s ideological direction. That has created a potential opening in a campaign field that, judging by polls and other reaction, has left Republican voters wanting more. “Thompson is a credible conservative, he has a strong voting record, he has strong, almost Reagan-esque communication skills,” said Scott Reed, who managed the presidential campaign of the Republican in 1996 and is unaffiliated with any campaigns. “And like Reagan, he believes in an ideological agenda in an undiluted way. He doesn’t have a bunch of qualifiers on things when he defends the Reagan years.” In a conference call on Tuesday, 75 to 100 Republicans who had offered to back the politician better known for his acting career were urged to raise roughly $50,000 each for the financial underpinnings of a Thompson bid that has been in the making for months. Five people closely involved in the emerging campaign discussed the plans in interviews Wednesday but asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to talk publicly about the details. Participants on the call said Mr. Thompson was enthusiastic about becoming an alternative to current contenders led by former Mayor of New York, Senator of Arizona and former Gov. of Massachusetts. They ready to formally announce without evidence that he could draw the necessary financial support. “You have to raise money to be competitive even if you are Fred Thompson,” said Representative Zach Wamp, a Tennessee Republican who has led an effort to draft Mr. Thompson. In another development on Wednesday, Mr. Thompson asked to be released from his role on “Law & Order” on NBC, The Associated Press reported. The show’s executive producer, Dick Wolf, said Mr. Thompson had told him that he “has not made a firm decision about his political future” but that he was concerned about “the creative and scheduling constraints of the upcoming season.” By joining the race late, Mr. Thompson may face questions about his ability to compete against the top-tier Republican candidates who have already raised at least $10 million each. He will also not participate in the Republican debate in New Hampshire on Tuesday. Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster and strategist who is not working for any candidate, and a little sad” that Mr. Thompson had not declared himself a full-fledged candidate. Mr. Thompson has faced questions about his political commitment stemming from his days in the Senate. “Thompson will be competing against three guys who have been running flat out for months and working their tails off for well over a year,” Mr. Fabrizio said. “If you’re not going to get in this race and double-time on work, effort and commitment, how do you expect to win? You need to send signals that say, ‘I’m here and I’m going to win.’ “ Although Mr. Thompson planned in the coming days to create what is known as a “testing the waters” committee that would allow him to raise and spend money, members of Mr. Thompson’s inner circle said that if the next few weeks were encouraging, he could officially enter the race as early as July. “Fred Thompson is doing everything he has to do to gauge support to come to a final decision in a timely manner,” said Mark Corallo, who has been acting as his spokesman. The intense interest in Mr. Thompson’s trajectory reflected concern in the rival Republican camps about his possible appeal across the South, among conservative and evangelical voters, who might be attracted to his mainstream conservative stances, like opposition to and strong support for states’ rights. “There are still a lot of undecided voters in South Carolina, and Fred Thompson comes with enormous appeal — I’d call it -like appeal,” said Katon Dawson, the chairman of the Republican Party in South Carolina, which holds one of the first presidential primaries. Allies of Mr. Thompson said they were confident he would attract big-name contributors and present and former office holders now supporting other candidates. But potential competitors questioned his ability to make such inroads. Kate Phillips contributed reporting. Faults &#8217;86 Law on Immigrants Ex-Senator Seen as Rehearsing for Prime Time G.O.P. All Ears as Ex-Senator Weighs Bid Presidential Election of 2008 Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Op-Ed Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Go, Eat, You Never Know Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/31lake.html Lake Okeechobee Drops to a Record Low Okeechobee Drops to a Record Low Scott Fisher/South Florida Sun-Sentinel, via Associated Press Stranded near Slim&#146;s Fish Camp on Torry Island in Belle Glade, Fla. POINT, Fla., state seems to seesaw perpetually between crises related to water: either too much or too little. Fisher/South Florida Sun-Sentinel, via Associated Press Fire burning to western shore of Lake Okeechobee on Tuesday. Levels are falling about a half-inch a day. Wednesday was no exception, as the retreating waters of drought-sapped Lake Okeechobee, a vital reservoir for millions of residents in dry times, sank toward a new low. Signaling the intensity of this once-a-century drought, roiling smoke clouds rose from exposed stretches of the saucerlike 730-square-mile basin midway between the crowded coasts. The plumes came from wildfires sweeping a 12,000-acre stretch of lakebed exposed as the waters retreated and sank about half an inch a day, water officials said. The flames fed on weeds and grasses that normally provide hiding places for bass, but are now baked by the sun and dehydrated by relentless winds. Officials at the South Florida Water Management District said the lake depth on Wednesday &#151; about six feet below normal &#151; matched the record low set in a long drought in 2001 and would certainly break the record overnight. “This year is definitely a larger challenge than 2001,” said Carol Wehle, executive director of the water district. “We have drought all the way from Disney to Key West.” Ms. Wehle said the easterly winds like those blowing over this town on the eastern shore of the lake were accelerating the drop in water by speeding evaporation. “Add to that warmer temperatures and lots of sunshine and when it gets this dry it doesn’t take much for the fire to spread,” she said. Thunderstorms predicted for this week, even a hurricane or two, are unlikely to end the water woes, Ms. Wehle said. “We need feet of rain, but coming every day throughout the summer,” she said. “When you have one big storm dumping a lot of water, the system can’t catch it.” Allows Florida to Clean Bottom of Lake Okeechobee Three States Delay Water-Sharing Plan National Briefing | South: Florida: Red Tide Spreads To Tampa Bay National Briefing | South: Florida: Water Plan Is Delayed Rivera Autographed Page
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/washington/31asylum.html seekers in the United States face broad disparities in the nation’s 54 courts, with the outcome of cases influenced by things like the location of the court and the sex and professional background of judges, a of the Report The study, by three law professors, analyzes 140,000 decisions by immigration judges, including those cases from the 15 countries that have produced the most asylum seekers in recent years, among them China, Haiti, Colombia, Albania and Russia. The professors compared for the first time the results of immigration court cases over more than four years, finding vast differences in the handling of claims with generally comparable factual circumstances. In one of the starker examples cited, Colombians had an 88 percent chance of winning asylum from one judge in the Miami immigration court and a 5 percent chance from another judge in the same court. “It is very disturbing that these decisions can mean life or death, and they seem to a large extent to be the result of a clerk’s random assignment of a case to a particular judge,” said an author of the study, Philip G. Schrag, a professor at The study offers an unusually detailed window into the overburdened and often erratic immigration courts. Though the immigration bill now being considered does not propose major revisions in asylum laws, those courts serve as the judicial backbone of the immigration system that would take on an immense new workload if the bill becomes law. The legislation would offer a road to legal status to an estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, eliminate backlogs of legal immigration cases and step up enforcement, among other measures. Experts predict countless legal snags that would land before the immigration judges. Officials at the Executive Office for Immigration Review of the Department of Justice, which oversees the immigration courts, declined to allow interviews about the study with David L. Neal, the chief immigration judge, citing a policy that immigration judges do not speak with the news media about their rulings. The study found that someone who has fled China in fear of persecution and asks for asylum in immigration court in Orlando, Fla., has an excellent — 76 percent — chance of success, while the same refugee would have a 7 percent chance in Atlanta. Similarly, a Haitian seeking refuge from political violence is almost twice as likely to succeed in New York as in Miami. Immigration lawyers acknowledge that the judges have difficult work, with huge dockets of cases that must be decided speedily on the basis of scant or subjective information. Often the asylum seeker is the only witness to crucial events. But because immigration law is federal, the study’s authors argued, some uniformity could be expected in judges’ asylum rulings across the country, particularly in cases of people fleeing a country, like China or Colombia, where the conditions of political oppression or civil violence are publicly known. “It’s such a high-volume system where the participants have so little time to test cases and make decisions, you become much more subject to the general viewpoint of the judge,” said Bo Cooper, a lawyer at Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker who is a former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. That has created a risk, Mr. Cooper said, that “the system will not be good enough at providing refuge to those in need or identifying the claims of those who are not in need.” The wide discretion exercised by immigration judges can be disheartening to lawyers and disastrous for immigrants facing threats to their lives if they are forced to return home, immigration lawyers said. “Oftentimes, it’s just the luck of the draw,” said Cheryl Little, a lawyer and executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center, a legal assistance group in Miami that represents many asylum seekers. “It’s heartbreaking,” Ms. Little said. “How do you explain to people asking for refuge that even in the United States of America we can’t assure them they will receive due process and justice?” While immigration officers at Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal agency, can grant asylum, the majority of asylum cases are decided by the immigration judges. Under the immigration system, refugees are foreigners coming from abroad who win residency in the United States for protection from religious persecution or political threats. Asylum is granted to foreigners who apply for refuge when they are already in the United States. The study is based on data on judges’ decisions from January 2000 through August 2004. It will be posted today on the Web site of the Social Science Research Network, , and published in November in the Stanford Law Review. In addition to Professor Schrag, the authors are Andrew I. Schoenholtz, also a professor at Georgetown University Law Center, and Jaya Ramji-Nogales, a professor at Beasley School of Law at EDUCATION; Immigration Raid Leaves Sense of Dread In Hispanic Students Illegal Migrants Dissect Details Of Senate Deal THE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION; 3 Months of Tense Talks Led to Immigration Deal Senators in Bipartisan Deal On Broad Immigration Bill &#x00bb; View of Yankee Stadium - 2004
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/education/31dayton.html Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story Greg Sailor Clark, left, and Arrick Greene graduated Wednesday from 32 students who graduated from on Wednesday evening were mostly from low-income families. Few of their parents went to college. Sailor Jones teaches science at the academy. Greg Sailor Hennessey is the principal of Budget cuts may force the school to change its structure. &#147;For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,&#148; Ms. Hennessey says. But every member of the graduating class, the school’s first, will attend college in the fall on the strength of their academic achievements and $2 million in scholarship offers, a remarkable success story in a school district plagued by budget shortfalls and challenges endemic to urban schools. That success, however, may not be enough to save the experimental public high school. Voters rejected a school tax levy on May 8, forcing the school district to cut $30 million from its budget. That could result in the academy’s reverting to a more traditional model. With more than 200 layoffs planned in the district, many of the teachers who have developed the academy’s curriculum through trial and error are likely to lose their jobs to teachers with more experience because layoffs to be made according to seniority. Some positions would probably be eliminated. “For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,” said Judy Hennessey, who resigned as superintendent of the affluent school district in nearby Oakwood to become principal of the academy, which has 225 students who are required to begin taking college-level courses by their junior or senior year. The school, which is in an office building owned by was founded and operated in part with support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the KnowledgeWorks Foundation, based in Cincinnati. Some supporters want to convert the academy into a charter school, which would free it from dealing with help it retain its staff. The student-teacher ratio at the academy is 14 to 1, compared with the district average of 33 to 1, Ms. Hennessey said. who is speaker of the Ohio House and whose district includes the academy, to sponsor a bill allowing it to become a charter school if not exempt the academy from layoffs by seniority. “I want them to keep this as part of the public system,” Mr. Husted said, “but if they’re unwilling to do that, I think preserving the school is more important.” Patricia Lynch, the president of the teachers’ union, was on the planning committee that formed the school but said it could not be exempt from cuts. “There are going to be setbacks in every school,” Ms. Lynch said. Thomas J. Lasley II, the dean of the School of Education at and a founder of the academy, said the school and others like it were desperately needed. “If you’re going to educate urban kids, you’re going to need niche places,” Dr. Lasley said. “We can’t be losing this much intellectual capital and expect cities like Dayton to survive too long.” Away from the financing tug of war, the graduating students were ebullient. Jerusha Clark, 18, graduated with a diploma and an associate’s degree in liberal arts. She has enrolled at Mars Hill College near Asheville, N.C., majoring in pre-med biology. Kasandra Maxwell, 18, will study engineering at Other students, like Shaina Moore, a 16-year-old sophomore, hope the school continues untouched next year. Ms. Moore’s mother died in 1999, and her grandmother, who became her guardian, suffered from alcohol abuse, she said. Ms. Moore went into foster care and missed 100 school days in fifth grade in a downward spiral she worried might never end. With the help of her great-aunt and great-uncle, who became her guardians in 2001, she found her footing and has since blossomed at the academy. “I started out struggling my first year,” she said. “Now that I’m acquainted, I feel like it’s my second home.” Ms. Moore loves the language arts, she said, especially persuasive writing. She hopes to use her powers of persuasion as a probation officer to help people set their lives straight. Next Article in Education (1 of 16) Victory for Families of Disabled Students THE 2006 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS; Religious Voting Data Show Some Shift, Observers Say THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Scientists Endorse Candidate Over Teaching of Evolution Nonlawyer Father Wins His Suit Over Education, and the Bar Is Upset Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (1 of 16) &#x00bb; NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/31road.html Louisiana Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims - Sets Deadline for Storm Damage Claims 31, 2007 The Road Home, the Louisiana grant program for homeowners who lost their houses to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, is expected to cost far more than the $7.5 billion provided by the federal government, in part because many more families have applied than officials had anticipated. Skip to next paragraph Go to Complete Coverage » As a result, Louisiana officials on Tuesday night set a July 31 deadline for applicants, who can receive up to $150,000 to repair or rebuild their houses. With the cutoff date, the state hopes to be able to figure out how much more money it needs to pay for the program; the shortfall is projected to be $2.9 billion. The financial woes of the Road Home have set off a frenzy of finger-pointing between federal and state officials, who blame one another for the projected shortfall. But it has stirred something close to despair among some Louisiana residents, who were already bemoaning the sluggish way the program has given out the money it does have; only 22,000 families statewide, out of 140,000 applicants, have received grants so far, for a total of $1.3 billion. The new problem has reinforced the fears of many in New Orleans that they are being abandoned by the federal government, even as it acknowledges that its levee system failed during Hurricane Katrina. “There’s no way they can ever make everybody whole, but they need to fix the thing they broke,” said Frank A. Silvestri, a New Orleans lawyer and co-founder of the Citizens’ Road Home Action Team, which has been critical of the program. Evidence that the program is likely to run out of money has been building for several weeks as the state has finally begun making a significant number of grants since the inception of the Road Home nine months ago. The grants have averaged about $76,000, which is more than the roughly $60,000 the state predicted last August. State officials say that many more houses turned out to have had severe damage than federal data indicated back when the program was created. They have also been surprised by a recent surge in applications, which are running at several hundred a day, almost two years after the storms, said Gentry Brann, director of communications for the program. The state also expected private insurance companies to cover a larger percentage of the damage, said Walter J. Leger Jr., a lawyer and member of the Louisiana Recovery Authority, which created the Road Home program. “Anecdotally, the companies aren’t paying,” Mr. Leger said. “National Flood Insurance paid out, but private insurers didn’t.” Insurance benefits are generally subtracted from grants awarded by the program. But Mr. Leger and other state officials concede that many homeowners may have preferred to try to get larger grants from the Road Home, rather than fight with their insurers. The Bush administration contends that the state itself created the shortfall by paying for home damage caused by wind, rather than limiting the program to flood damage. Insurance policies are more likely to cover wind damage than flood damage. The decision to pay for wind damage added about 43,000 houses to the likely total covered by the program, at a cost of about $2.6 billion, according to data from the office of Donald E. Powell, President Bush’s coordinator for Gulf Coast rebuilding. Even so, Mr. Powell “is not opposed to additional funding — if the state can make a clear case for more funds,” his spokeswoman, Susan Aspey, wrote in an e-mail message. “He wants to get this resolved as quickly as possible for the people of Louisiana, and he’s indicated his willingness to sit down with the governor and her staff to work towards that end.” State officials, from the governor on down, say the program has always covered wind damage, and that they do not understand why Mr. Powell is raising the issue so late in the game. The state had a similar run-in with the Department of Housing and Urban Development over the way it paid out the grant money, and ended up changing the program in April. Louisiana is also fighting the Federal Emergency Management Agency for more than $1 billion it was counting on for the Road Home program. FEMA says it cannot release the money — intended for hazard-mitigation efforts like elevating houses — because the Road Home discriminates against younger people by exempting people 65 and older from a requirement that grant recipients live in their rebuilt houses for three years. Further complicating the financial picture is the fact that the state treasury is running a budget surplus of about $3 billion, which some in Washington have argued should be used to bail out the Road Home. subcommittee that held a hearing on the program last week is likely to recommend ways to fix it in a report to be released in June, said Stephanie Allen, a spokeswoman for Senator , the Louisiana Democrat who is chairwoman of the subcommittee. “She doesn’t think the federal government should be responsible for the entire bailout,” Ms. Allen said. “It should be a combined effort of the federal government and the state.” Offers Steps to Ease Hurricane Aid Hurricane Survivors to Buy U.S. Trailers or Pay Rental Fee U.S. Gives Grants to 4 Gulf Coast States to Upgrade Disaster Housing FEMA Not Required to Restore Aid to Evacuees, Court Rules Federal Emergency Management Agency million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/politics/31thompson.html Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run - in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run Ann Johansson for Senator Fred D. Thompson will begin raising money for a campaign for the Republican nomination. 31, 2007 WASHINGTON, Senator of Tennessee has taken new steps that make it clear that he is likely to run for the White House, potentially shaking up a field of candidates that has failed to strike a chord with the Republican base. Skip to next paragraph In His Own Words The latest political news from around the nation. Ann Johansson for Senator Fred Thompson greeted Boy Scouts after speaking in California to the Lincoln Club of Orange County on May 4. Mr. Thompson is creating a committee that will let him begin raising money on Monday toward a full-blown national campaign, advisers said Wednesday. They hope his name recognition as an actor and radio commentator, conservative stands on issues like and government spending, and strength in the South will differentiate him from the current crop of candidates. The disclosure of his intensifying activities sent ripples through the party, with the campaigns of two of the main Republican candidates checking with their deputies in Iowa and New Hampshire to monitor any hiring or fund-raising efforts by Mr. Thompson, 64. One campaign held a brief strategy session to review poll results on Mr. Thompson, and found him well-positioned even as an unannounced candidate. His moves come as have failed to coalesce around a candidate, as they struggle with the war in Iraq, President Bush’s unpopularity and questions about the party’s ideological direction. That has created a potential opening in a campaign field that, judging by polls and other reaction, has left Republican voters wanting more. “Thompson is a credible conservative, he has a strong voting record, he has strong, almost Reagan-esque communication skills,” said Scott Reed, who managed the presidential campaign of the Republican in 1996 and is unaffiliated with any campaigns. “And like Reagan, he believes in an ideological agenda in an undiluted way. He doesn’t have a bunch of qualifiers on things when he defends the Reagan years.” In a conference call on Tuesday, 75 to 100 Republicans who had offered to back the politician better known for his acting career were urged to raise roughly $50,000 each for the financial underpinnings of a Thompson bid that has been in the making for months. Five people closely involved in the emerging campaign discussed the plans in interviews Wednesday but asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to talk publicly about the details. Participants on the call said Mr. Thompson was enthusiastic about becoming an alternative to current contenders led by former Mayor of New York, Senator of Arizona and former Gov. of Massachusetts. They ready to formally announce without evidence that he could draw the necessary financial support. “You have to raise money to be competitive even if you are Fred Thompson,” said Representative Zach Wamp, a Tennessee Republican who has led an effort to draft Mr. Thompson. In another development on Wednesday, Mr. Thompson asked to be released from his role on “Law & Order” on NBC, The Associated Press reported. The show’s executive producer, Dick Wolf, said Mr. Thompson had told him that he “has not made a firm decision about his political future” but that he was concerned about “the creative and scheduling constraints of the upcoming season.” By joining the race late, Mr. Thompson may face questions about his ability to compete against the top-tier Republican candidates who have already raised at least $10 million each. He will also not participate in the Republican debate in New Hampshire on Tuesday. Tony Fabrizio, a Republican pollster and strategist who is not working for any candidate, and a little sad” that Mr. Thompson had not declared himself a full-fledged candidate. Mr. Thompson has faced questions about his political commitment stemming from his days in the Senate. “Thompson will be competing against three guys who have been running flat out for months and working their tails off for well over a year,” Mr. Fabrizio said. “If you’re not going to get in this race and double-time on work, effort and commitment, how do you expect to win? You need to send signals that say, ‘I’m here and I’m going to win.’ “ Although Mr. Thompson planned in the coming days to create what is known as a “testing the waters” committee that would allow him to raise and spend money, members of Mr. Thompson’s inner circle said that if the next few weeks were encouraging, he could officially enter the race as early as July. “Fred Thompson is doing everything he has to do to gauge support to come to a final decision in a timely manner,” said Mark Corallo, who has been acting as his spokesman. The intense interest in Mr. Thompson’s trajectory reflected concern in the rival Republican camps about his possible appeal across the South, among conservative and evangelical voters, who might be attracted to his mainstream conservative stances, like opposition to and strong support for states’ rights. “There are still a lot of undecided voters in South Carolina, and Fred Thompson comes with enormous appeal — I’d call it -like appeal,” said Katon Dawson, the chairman of the Republican Party in South Carolina, which holds one of the first presidential primaries. Allies of Mr. Thompson said they were confident he would attract big-name contributors and present and former office holders now supporting other candidates. But potential competitors questioned his ability to make such inroads. Kate Phillips contributed reporting. Faults &#8217;86 Law on Immigrants Ex-Senator Seen as Rehearsing for Prime Time G.O.P. All Ears as Ex-Senator Weighs Bid Presidential Election of 2008 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands NYT WILL SHORTZ PRESENTS CROSSWORDS FOR 365 DAYS Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/us/31lake.html Lake Okeechobee Drops to a Record Low - Okeechobee Drops to a Record Low Scott Fisher/South Florida Sun-Sentinel, via Associated Press Stranded near Slim&#146;s Fish Camp on Torry Island in Belle Glade, Fla. 31, 2007 CANAL POINT, Fla., state seems to seesaw perpetually between crises related to water: either too much or too little. Skip to next paragraph Scott Fisher/South Florida Sun-Sentinel, via Associated Press Fire burning to western shore of Lake Okeechobee on Tuesday. Levels are falling about a half-inch a day. Wednesday was no exception, as the retreating waters of drought-sapped Lake Okeechobee, a vital reservoir for millions of residents in dry times, sank toward a new low. Signaling the intensity of this once-a-century drought, roiling smoke clouds rose from exposed stretches of the saucerlike 730-square-mile basin midway between the crowded coasts. The plumes came from wildfires sweeping a 12,000-acre stretch of lakebed exposed as the waters retreated and sank about half an inch a day, water officials said. The flames fed on weeds and grasses that normally provide hiding places for bass, but are now baked by the sun and dehydrated by relentless winds. Officials at the South Florida Water Management District said the lake depth on Wednesday &#151; about six feet below normal &#151; matched the record low set in a long drought in 2001 and would certainly break the record overnight. “This year is definitely a larger challenge than 2001,” said Carol Wehle, executive director of the water district. “We have drought all the way from Disney to Key West.” Ms. Wehle said the easterly winds like those blowing over this town on the eastern shore of the lake were accelerating the drop in water by speeding evaporation. “Add to that warmer temperatures and lots of sunshine and when it gets this dry it doesn’t take much for the fire to spread,” she said. Thunderstorms predicted for this week, even a hurricane or two, are unlikely to end the water woes, Ms. Wehle said. “We need feet of rain, but coming every day throughout the summer,” she said. “When you have one big storm dumping a lot of water, the system can’t catch it.” Allows Florida to Clean Bottom of Lake Okeechobee Three States Delay Water-Sharing Plan National Briefing | South: Florida: Red Tide Spreads To Tampa Bay National Briefing | South: Florida: Water Plan Is Delayed million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Liberty Framed by World Trade Center - 1983 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/education/31dayton.html Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story - School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story Greg Sailor for Clark, left, and Arrick Greene graduated Wednesday from 31, 2007 , 32 students who graduated from on Wednesday evening were mostly from low-income families. Few of their parents went to college. Skip to next paragraph Greg Sailor for Jones teaches science at the academy. Greg Sailor for Hennessey is the principal of Budget cuts may force the school to change its structure. &#147;For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,&#148; Ms. Hennessey says. But every member of the graduating class, the school’s first, will attend college in the fall on the strength of their academic achievements and $2 million in scholarship offers, a remarkable success story in a school district plagued by budget shortfalls and challenges endemic to urban schools. That success, however, may not be enough to save the experimental public high school. Voters rejected a school tax levy on May 8, forcing the school district to cut $30 million from its budget. That could result in the academy’s reverting to a more traditional model. With more than 200 layoffs planned in the district, many of the teachers who have developed the academy’s curriculum through trial and error are likely to lose their jobs to teachers with more experience because layoffs to be made according to seniority. Some positions would probably be eliminated. “For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,” said Judy Hennessey, who resigned as superintendent of the affluent school district in nearby Oakwood to become principal of the academy, which has 225 students who are required to begin taking college-level courses by their junior or senior year. The school, which is in an office building owned by was founded and operated in part with support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the KnowledgeWorks Foundation, based in Cincinnati. Some supporters want to convert the academy into a charter school, which would free it from dealing with help it retain its staff. The student-teacher ratio at the academy is 14 to 1, compared with the district average of 33 to 1, Ms. Hennessey said. who is speaker of the Ohio House and whose district includes the academy, to sponsor a bill allowing it to become a charter school if not exempt the academy from layoffs by seniority. “I want them to keep this as part of the public system,” Mr. Husted said, “but if they’re unwilling to do that, I think preserving the school is more important.” Patricia Lynch, the president of the teachers’ union, was on the planning committee that formed the school but said it could not be exempt from cuts. “There are going to be setbacks in every school,” Ms. Lynch said. Thomas J. Lasley II, the dean of the School of Education at and a founder of the academy, said the school and others like it were desperately needed. “If you’re going to educate urban kids, you’re going to need niche places,” Dr. Lasley said. “We can’t be losing this much intellectual capital and expect cities like Dayton to survive too long.” Away from the financing tug of war, the graduating students were ebullient. Jerusha Clark, 18, graduated with a diploma and an associate’s degree in liberal arts. She has enrolled at Mars Hill College near Asheville, N.C., majoring in pre-med biology. Kasandra Maxwell, 18, will study engineering at Other students, like Shaina Moore, a 16-year-old sophomore, hope the school continues untouched next year. Ms. Moore’s mother died in 1999, and her grandmother, who became her guardian, suffered from alcohol abuse, she said. Ms. Moore went into foster care and missed 100 school days in fifth grade in a downward spiral she worried might never end. With the help of her great-aunt and great-uncle, who became her guardians in 2001, she found her footing and has since blossomed at the academy. “I started out struggling my first year,” she said. “Now that I’m acquainted, I feel like it’s my second home.” Ms. Moore loves the language arts, she said, especially persuasive writing. She hopes to use her powers of persuasion as a probation officer to help people set their lives straight. Next Article in Education (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need Victory for Families of Disabled Students THE 2006 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS; Religious Voting Data Show Some Shift, Observers Say THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Scientists Endorse Candidate Over Teaching of Evolution Nonlawyer Father Wins His Suit Over Education, and the Bar Is Upset Teachers and School Employees Next Article in Education (1 of 16) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/national/index.html
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/us/04kevorkian.html?ex=1338609600&en=0359fbd09ab2b3f8&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Kevorkian Speaks After His Release From Prison - Speaks After His Release From Prison Mr. Kevorkian, in 1991 with his &#147;suicide machine,&#148; says he participated in more than 130 assisted suicides. 4, 2007 SOUTHFIELD, Mich., June 3 — , the former pathologist once known as Doctor Death, says he will never again counsel a terminally ill person on how to die. But eight years behind bars and a strict list of promises to gain parole have done nothing to mellow the blunt, passionate, combative advocate for physician-assisted Skip to next paragraph Jack Kevorkian on People's Rights ( Fabrizio Costantini for Kevorkian was released from prison on Friday after serving eight years for second-degree murder. In an interview here on Sunday, two days after his release from prison, Mr. Kevorkian, 79, let loose a rush of fierce words about a nation that did not pass any new laws allowing assisted suicide while he was in prison. Again and again, he called the government “the tyrant.” He called the public “sheep.” He called some of his harshest critics “religious fanatics or nuts.” Mr. Kevorkian says he assisted with more than 130 suicides in the 1990s, when he drew national attention to questions about what rights people have when it comes to dying. Asked whether he would turn away a gravely ill person seeking his guidance now, he said gruffly, “I can’t help them.” Mr. Kevorkian, convicted in one of those 130 cases of second-degree murder, has agreed in his parole provisions not to help anyone else commit suicide. “Sorry,” he said. “Don’t blame me. Blame your government for passing the laws.” Mr. Kevorkian seemed gloomy, too, about whether laws allowing assisted suicide would ever expand much beyond Oregon, the only state that has legalized the practice under certain circumstances. Of the United States becoming one of the countries to allow it, he said: “It’ll be the last one, if it does ever. It’s a tyrannical country.” Mr. Kevorkian also criticized the existing Oregon law — and other proposed legislation, including a bill being considered in the California Legislature this week — as not going far enough. Most proposed laws require ill people to administer the lethal drugs themselves, which Mr. Kevorkian said would exclude people unable to move or swallow on their own and in need of a physician’s direct help. “What they’re pushing for is not complete,” he said. “They always accused me of being radical. I’m not radical. I’m making sure it’s complete and well done.” In the interview in his lawyer’s office here, Mr. Kevorkian, gaunt at 126 pounds and dressed in a worn jacket, described his plans for educating the public (about the Ninth Amendment, which says that rights not otherwise addressed by the Constitution are reserved for the people), recalled his years behind bars (“loud” and “boring”), and reflected on the deaths that drew so much focus to In 1999, Mr. Kevorkian was convicted of giving a fatal injection to , a 52-year-old man who had . A videotape of the death was broadcast on national television, after Mr. Kevorkian gave it to “60 Minutes” along with an interview in which he challenged prosecutors to charge him with a crime. Asked whether he had any regrets about that period, Mr. Kevorkian said, mostly not. If anything, he said, he wished he had sought different legal advice. “Everything else had to be done,” he said. In recent days, religious leaders and opponents of assisted suicide have expressed outrage at Mr. Kevorkian’s release from prison and at the avalanche of publicity that has followed. Ned McGrath, an official with the Archdiocese of Detroit, which represents 1.4 million Roman Catholics, issued a statement comparing Mr. Kevorkian’s actions to those of a “pathological serial killer.” Even some supporters of assisted suicide have sought to distance themselves from Mr. Kevorkian for his flamboyant, blunt image and for his failure to wait for the laws to change. Mr. Kevorkian once wore a wig and a costume to court to make a point. With great fanfare, he offered the kidneys of one person he helped commit suicide to those in need of a transplant. He burned state orders that he stop assisting suicides. On Sunday, Mr. Kevorkian discounted his critics and said he did not care what his legacy might be in the assisted-suicide movement. “I did it right,” he said. “I didn’t care what they did or didn’t do. When I’m going to do it, I’m going to do it right.” For the time being, Mr. Kevorkian is staying with friends in Michigan. He will live on a hospital pension and Social Security — a total of about $900 a month, according to state officials, who say his incarceration cost taxpayers about $250,000. Mayer Morganroth, his current lawyer, said Mr. Kevorkian had been offered speaking fees that might bring $50,000 to $100,000, but Mr. Kevorkian said he had not made any decisions about the speaking circuit. Any talk about assisted suicide, he said, would have to be brief because the provisions of his parole prevent him from going into much detail. “You see, I’m still in prison,” he said. “I’m on a tether. I’m on a virtual tether. If you don’t behave, you go back to prison.” Mr. Kevorkian, who must check in with his parole officer each week, is barred from counseling anyone on suicide, but he can advocate for laws, said Russ Marlan, a spokesman for the Michigan Department of Corrections. “His parole officer used the analogy of nuclear weapons,” Mr. Marlan said. “One could advocate the use of them, but you can’t tell people how to build a nuclear bomb.” Mr. Kevorkian, who quipped when an aide sought his drink request that he would have “cyanide,” grew grimly serious when told that his critics did not believe him when he said he would not offer suicide advice to another ill person. “I said I won’t do it again,” he said, “and it’s not even worth doing again by me because it’d be counterproductive to what I’m fighting for. It’s up to others. If you people don’t want that right, then don’t do it. Then let your government trample all over you. If you don’t want to do it, it’s all right by me, but you don’t get me talking about it and going back to that thing called prison.” During his time in prison, he said, he completed two self-published books, “Amendment Nine: Our Cornucopia of Rights” and a collection of paintings, music, limericks and philosophy on life and death. He said he made friends in prison, but also enemies, including some who opposed his political views. Mainly, he said, prison was boring. “The same routine, the same people, over and over again.” Mr. Kevorkian said he had struggled with illnesses, including and other ailments. He said he had pondered his own death regularly. “I want this choice when I get there if I want to,” he said. Mr. Kevorkian said he was never bothered by his Doctor Death nickname. “They’re right in a way,” he said, pointing out that his focus, as a former pathologist, was always death and dying. “Everyone is going to die,” he said. “Aren’t you interested in what’s going to happen?” &#x00bb; Need Freed After Years in Prison for Aiding Suicide National Briefing | Midwest: Michigan: Assisted Suicide Doctor To Be Paroled Kevorkian Lawyer Seeks His Early Release THE SCHIAVO CASE: THE DYING; New Openness in Deciding When and How to Die Suicides and Suicide Attempts &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Go to Complete List » Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/us/04adopt.html?ex=1338609600&en=965d46071c4ca81e&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia - in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia Ben Garvin for left, and Hattie Frauenheim Danke, at home in Minneapolis. Besso was adopted from Ethiopia. 4, 2007 was not on Mark and Vera Westrum-Ostrom’s list when they first visited Children’s Home Society & Family Services here to explore an international adoption. Skip to next paragraph From Ethiopia to Minnesota Ben Garvin for Danke and Kirk Frauenheim, with children Sam, Hattie, and three adopted from Ethiopia, twin sisters Tigist and Besso, and Miki. Ukraine was first, because of their family heritage, until the couple discovered that the adoption system there was chaotic, with inaccurate information about orphans’ health and availability. Vietnam was second, after they saw videos of well-run orphanages. But the wait would be at least a year and a half. Then they learned about Ethiopia’s model centers for orphans, run by American agencies, with an efficient adoption system that made it possible for them to file paperwork on Labor Day and claim 2-year-old Tariku, a boy with almond eyes and a halo of ringlets, at Christmas. From Addis Ababa, the capital city, they traveled to the countryside to meet the boy’s birth mother, an opportunity rare in international adoption. And at roughly $20,000, the process was affordable compared with other foreign adoptions, and free of the bribes that are common in some countries. It is no wonder, given these advantages, that Ethiopia, a country more often associated by Americans with drought, famine and conflict, has become a hot spot for international adoption. Even before the actress Angelina Jolie put adoption in Ethiopia on the cover of People magazine in 2005, the number of adoptions there by Americans was growing. The total is still small — 732 children in 2006, out of a total of 20,632 foreign adoptions, but it is a steep increase, up from 82 children adopted in 1997. Ethiopia now ranks 5th among countries for adoption by Americans, up from 16th in 2000. In the same period, the number of American agencies licensed to operate there has skyrocketed from one to 22. The increasing interest in Ethiopia comes at a time when the leading countries for international adoption, China, Guatemala and Russia, are, respectively, tightening eligibility requirements, under scrutiny for adoption corruption and closing borders to American agencies. Ethiopia’s sudden popularity also comes with risks, say government officials there and in America. “I don’t think we’ll be able to handle it,” said Haddush Halefom, an official at the Ministry of Women’s Affairs, which oversees adoption. “We don’t have the capacity to handle all these new agencies, and we have to monitor the quality, not just the quantity.” Capping the number of agencies is one solution. And that is what some international adoption officials in the United States are now urging the Ethiopian government to do. Of concern is the ability of agencies to handle the rising demand, which may have contributed to a recent mix-up involving two families sent home with the wrong children by Christian World Adoption, an established agency, although relatively new to Ethiopia. That case prompted inquiries by the State Department and the nonprofit Joint Council on International Children’s Services in Virginia, a child welfare and advocacy organization, and the adoption agency itself, said Thomas DiFilipo, president of the joint council. Officials at Christian World Adoption did not reply to e-mail messages or telephone calls. But Mr. DiFilipo said the agency was reviewing its procedures and has hired lawyers to resolve the mix-up. The consensus, Mr. DiFilipo said, is that the mix-up was “an honest mistake.” But, he added, “This could be the byproduct of a staff handling 35 placements when they’re used to handling 20.” Children’s Home Society & Family Services, founded in 1889, began working in Ethiopia in 2004. The agency completed about 300 adoptions in its first three years in Ethiopia, and expects to complete that many in 2007 alone. Along with Wide Horizons For Children in Waltham, Mass., the society is credited with helping Ethiopia create a model for international adoption. Ethiopia, with a population of 76 million, has an estimated 5 million children who have lost one or both parents, according to aid organizations. Many African nations have outlawed or impeded the adoption of their children by foreigners. Ethiopia has welcomed American and European families who are willing to provide homes for children who have lost both parents to , malaria, tuberculosis or starvation, or who come from families too destitute to feed and clothe them. (The adoption process includes routine screening for HIV infection.) Two elements distinguish Ethiopia’s adoption system, according to dozens of experts. One is the existence of transitional homes for orphans, in the countryside and in the capital, with services and staffing that are rare in the developing world — paid for by American agencies. Not long ago, Sandra Iverson, a nurse practitioner from the ’s international adoption health clinic, the first of its kind in the United States, was invited to visit the Children’s Home Society’s Ethiopian centers. She arrived with a neonatal otoscope, to diagnose ear infections; the Red Book, the bible of pediatrics; and scarce antibiotics. She left confident that Ethiopia’s orphans enjoyed unusual care. “You don’t hear crying babies,” Ms. Iverson said. “They are picked up immediately.” Jane Gross reported from St. Paul, and Will Connors from Addis Ababa. &#x00bb; Need by AIDS Orphans, Ethiopia Eases Adoptions by Foreigners What Will Become of Africa's AIDS Orphans? Families and Family Life &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Go to Complete List » Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/americas/04cnd-gitmo.html Judge Throws Out Charges in Guantánamo Prisoner Case - Throws Out Charges in Guantánamo Prisoner Case 4, 2007 , Cuba, June 4 — A military judge here dismissed the war crimes charges against a Canadian detainee today, saying there was a flaw in the procedure the military has used to file such charges against Guantánamo detainees. The ruling in the case of the Canadian, Omar Khadr, is likely to stall the military’s war crimes prosecutions here. Critics of the prosecutions immediately called for Congress to reexamine the system it set up last year for military commissions to try detainees. The military judge, Col. Peter E. Brownback III of the Army, said that Congress authorized the tribunals to try only those detainees who had been determined to be unlawful enemy combatants. But the military authorities here, he said, have determined only that Mr. Khadr was an enemy combatant, without making the added determination that his participation was “unlawful.” Military lawyers here said the same flaw would affect every other potential war crimes case here. The ruling, the latest in a history of legal setbacks for the government’s effort to bring war-crimes charges against detainees, appeared to raise far-reaching questions, because it involved central principles of detention procedures. Under directives from President Bush and senior Defense Department officials, military officials here have held detainees after finding simply that they were “enemy combatants.” Those procedures have long drawn criticism, with some opponents of administration policies saying that they appeared to ignore principles of the international law of war, which permits the violence of battle without classifying it a war crime. A military official said the Pentagon disagreed with the ruling, saying it had always been “implied” that Mr. Khadr was an unlawful combatant. The official said the Pentagon planned to appeal Colonel Brownback’s ruling. “This is just a semantic decision, is the way we are viewing it,” the official said. The colonel’s ruling does not mean that Mr. Khadr will be freed. The military prosecutors are permitted to refile their murder and terrorism charges against him. They could repair the legal problem by holding a new hearing here, known as a combatant status review tribunal, to determine if he was an unlawful enemy combatant. Colonel Brownback said in his ruling that the military commission set up to try Khadr lacked the jurisdiction to hear the case, because of the absence of the “unlawful enemy combatant” finding, which he said is required under a provision of the law passed last year by Congress. He acted on his own initiative, not in response to a request from the defense. “A person has a right to be tried only by a court which he knows has jurisdiction over him,” the judge said from the bench in the military courtroom at the United States naval base here. The chief military defense lawyer here, Col. Dwight Sullivan of the Marines, said he viewed the decision as having broad impact, because it underscored what he and other critics have described as a commission process that lacks international legitimacy and legal authority. “How much more evidence do we need that the military commission process doesn’t work?” Colonel Sullivan said. Last June, the Supreme Court struck down the Bush administration’s original plan for military commission trials. The principal flaw identified by the court was that the President had established them without Congressional authorization. The law cited by Judge Brownback yesterday was then passed by Congress. &#x00bb; Need Briefing | South: Virginia: Jury Recommends Six Months For Lawyer National Briefing | South: Virginia: Navy Lawyer Is Guilty Of Communicating Secret Information Terror Suspect Testifies of Torture in Custody Guantanamo Bay Naval Base (Cuba) &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky NYT Keepsake Inside Page Reprint Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/us/politics/04debate.html Iraq Is Flash Point as 8 Democratic Rivals Clash - Is Flash Point as 8 Democratic Rivals Clash Patrick Andrade for for the Democratic presidential nomination met Sunday night in New Hampshire where the war in Iraq dominated the two-hour debate. 4, 2007 GOFFSTOWN, N.H., June 3 — The three leading candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination attacked each other overtly and subtly Sunday over Iraq and their judgment, honesty and leadership in handling that war. Skip to next paragraph Transcript: The Democrats’ Second 2008 Presidential Debate The latest political news from around the nation. of New York, the front-runner in national polls, both drew fire and calmly returned it in the second nationally televised Democratic debate, arguing that the differences among the Democrats were minor compared with their differences with President Bush. of North Carolina repeatedly went after Mrs. Clinton and Senator of Illinois, accusing them of being followers in Congress — not leaders — in the effort to bring an end to the war. “There are differences between us,” said Mr. Edwards, who has campaigned hard for the support of antiwar Democrats. “And I think Democratic voters deserve to know the differences between us. I think there is a difference between making very clear when the crucial moment comes, on Congress ending this war, what your position is, and standing quiet.” Mr. Obama, for his part, noted that he opposed the war while still in the Illinois Senate in the fall of 2002, unlike Mr. Edwards, who voted to authorize the use of force but has since repudiated that vote. “The fact is that I opposed this war from the start,” Mr. Obama said to Mr. Edwards. “So you’re about four and a half years late on leadership on this issue.” It was one of several striking exchanges — arguably the sharpest of the Democratic campaign — that highlighted the three-way nature of this race for the nomination. The eight Democratic candidates squared off on the campus of St. Anselm College here, just outside Manchester, in a state that has jealously protected its traditional position as the first primary in the nation. Stagecraft heightened political reality, with CNN placing the three front-runners next to one another before tall lecterns for the first hour of the two-hour debate. Mrs. Clinton was in the center, a place she also sought to hug on the political spectrum. Often, she seemed to be looking beyond the Democratic primary and toward the general election. On the war in particular, she seemed intent on focusing attention not on her initial vote to authorize the war and how her record on that issue compares with the records of her rivals for the nomination, but on the larger divide between the two parties. “This is George Bush’s war,” Mrs. Clinton said. “And what we are trying to do, whether it’s by speaking out from the outside or working and casting votes that actually make a difference from the inside, we are trying to end the war.” But Mrs. Clinton’s efforts to step above the fray of a primary — to be presidential — did not stop her opponents. Mr. Edwards, noting that he had acknowledged that he was wrong to vote for the use of force, pointedly added, “It is important for anybody who seeks to be the next president of the United States, given the dishonesty that we’ve been faced with over the last several years, to be honest to the country.” Mrs. Clinton has declined to repudiate her vote to authorize the war, much to the dismay of antiwar Democrats. But she has steadily moved toward an antiwar policy and has said that if she knew in 2002 what she knows today, she would vote differently. The mounting pressure from the party’s base to quickly end the war drew a few gentle protests from some of the candidates, including Senator Jr. of Delaware, the only Democratic presidential candidate in the Senate who voted for the Iraq spending legislation that passed last month. Under a continued threat of a presidential veto, Democratic leaders stripped a timeline for troop withdrawal from the legislation. “Ladies and gentlemen, you’re going to end this war when you elect a Democratic president,” Mr. Biden said. Referring to what it takes to override a veto in the Senate, Mr. Biden said, “You need 67 votes to end this war. I love these guys who tell you they’re going to stop the war.” The three leading candidates also debated whether senators should have read, in 2002, the National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq, which made clear there was disagreement within the government over the strength of Iraq’s weapons programs. Asked if she regretted not reading it, Mrs. Clinton replied: “I feel like I was totally briefed. I knew all of the arguments that were being made by everyone from every direction.” But, Mr. Obama said, “obviously there was some pertinent information there,” noting that former Senator of Florida, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, had cited the report as a factor in his vote against authorizing the war. In general, Mr. Obama appeared more forceful and poised than he did during the first debate, on April 26 in South Carolina. Later, even he conceded he had stumbled in answering a question about how he would respond to a terrorist attack on American soil. When asked Sunday night about how he would deal with , Mr. Obama declared, “You take him out.” A day after four men were charged with attempting to sabotage Kennedy International Airport, the candidates were asked whether the Bush administration’s war on terrorism had been a success domestically. Mr. Edwards said that it had not, calling it “a global war on terror bumper sticker — political slogan, that’s all it is.” But Mrs. Clinton shot back that she disagreed. “I’m a senator from New York. I have lived with the aftermath of 9/11,” she said. “I believe we are safer than we were. We are not yet safe enough.” During the two-hour debate, the candidates were asked questions about a wide range of domestic and foreign policy issues. Asked what he would do to address high gasoline prices, Senator of Connecticut said he would require a 50-mile per-gallon standard for automobiles within 10 years. Senator Clinton was asked whether her husband’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy for gays in the military was a mistake. “No. It was an important first step,” she said, calling it “a transition policy.” Asked to raise their hands if they supported repealing the policy, all eight Democrats signaled that they did. The candidates also were asked how, if elected to the White House, they would use the former president. “Obviously Senator Clinton may have something to say about how I use ,” Mr. Obama said as the crowd laughed aloud. With a wide smile of her own, she replied, “When I become president, Bill Clinton, my dear husband, will be one of the people who will be sent around the world as a roving ambassador.” The forum was moderated by Wolf Blitzer of CNN, which played host to the debate with WMUR-TV and The Union Leader of . In the second hour, the candidates sat down and took questions from voters, many of which centered on foreign affairs, from undertaking military action in Iran to rebuilding alliances with Pakistan to intervening on the violence in Sudan. of New Mexico said the United States should lean on China to pressure the Sudanese government to allow more United Nation as peacekeepers into the northern African nation, where at least 300,000 people have died and two million have been driven from their homes. “If the Chinese don’t want to do this, we say to them, maybe we won’t go to the Olympics,” he said, referring to the 2008 summer games. Most of the debate time was allotted to the leading contenders, which generated some complaints from the other candidates. &#x00bb; Need The Democrats&#8217; Second 2008 Presidential Debate A Detour to Iowa Showcases &#8217;08 Democrats California Primary Ballot May Include Iraq Question 2 More Democratic Candidates Decline to Join in Fox News Debate Presidential Election of 2008 &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Fifth Avenue From St. Regis, circa 1904 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/us/politics/04bain.html Romney&#8217;s Fortunes Tied to Business Riches - Fortunes Tied to Business Riches David L. Ryan/The Boston Globe Mitt Romney says running his investment fund business prepared him to hold elected office. 4, 2007 WASHINGTON, June 3 — owes his nearly $350 million fortune and his political career to a delicate negotiation with his boss in the summer of 1983. Skip to next paragraph Growth of Bain Capital The latest political news from around the nation. David L. Ryan/The Boston Globe Mitt Romney, left, with Bill Bain in 1990. Mr. Romney began his business rise working for Mr. Bain. His boss, Bill Bain, founder of the Boston consulting firm Bain & Company, called Mr. Romney into his corner office to say that the partners had picked him to start an investment fund to cash in on the huge gains their clients were making in the stock market. To Mr. Bain’s surprise, Mr. Romney, then 36, seemed wary. He worried about giving up his comfortable salary for a venture that might fail and, later, that investing would pose conflicts for a consulting firm. Mr. Bain had been determined not to cede any control of the investment fund, but over months of talks Mr. Romney persuaded him to do just that. Mr. Romney emerged as head of an independent sister company, Bain Capital. And Mr. Bain protected him financially while assuming the most risk. Two decades later, Bain Capital is one of the nation’s five largest private equity firms, and Mr. Romney, who left its management eight years ago, is making his success there a cornerstone of his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination. Citing his business experience, he urges voters to reject “lifetime politicians” who “have never run a corner store, let alone the largest enterprise in the world.” Mr. Romney, though, never ran a corner store or a traditional business. Instead, he excelled as a deal maker, a buyer and seller of companies, a master at the art of persuasion that he demonstrated in the talks that led to the forming of Bain Capital. “Mitt ran a private equity firm, not a cement company,” said Eric A. Kriss, a former Bain Capital partner. “He was not a businessman in the sense of running a company,” Mr. Kriss said, adding, “He was a great presenter, a great spokesman and a great salesman.” Supporters of Mr. Romney argue that those skills also equip him for public office, whether as governor of Massachusetts, which he was for four years, or as president. “In private equity and in consulting, a lot of what you rely on is trust and confidence and persuasion,” said Mr. Kriss, who worked in Mr. Romney’s cabinet when he was governor. “It is the same in the public sphere, and over many decades that is what Mitt has proven to be good at.” But Mr. Romney’s Bain career — a source of money and contacts that he has used to finance his Massachusetts campaigns and to leap ahead of his presidential rivals in early fund-raising — also exposes him to criticism that he enriched himself excessively, sometimes by cutting jobs to increase profits. He made his money mainly through leveraged buyouts — essentially, mortgaging companies to take them over in the hope of reselling them at big profits in just a few years. It is a bare-knuckle form of investing that is in the spotlight because of the exploding profits of buyout giants like Bain, Blackstone and the Carlyle Group. In Washington, Congress is considering ending a legal quirk that lets fund managers escape much of the income tax on their earnings. “The amounts of money are so vast that it is truly a matter of time before the taxation of private equity is front and center of the public agenda,” said James E. Post, a professor who teaches business-government relations. “Increasingly, this world of private equity looks like a world of robber barons, and Romney comes out of that world.” Mr. Romney learned the perils of campaigning on his business career in his first run for office, when accusations that Bain Capital had fired union workers at an Indiana company it controlled derailed his effort to unseat Senator , a Democrat, in 1994. “Basically, he cut our throats,” a laid-off worker said in a commercial attacking Mr. Romney. (He has said he had nothing to do with the firings.) Mr. Romney, in an interview, acknowledged that Bain Capital’s acquisitions had sometimes led to layoffs but said that he could explain them to voters. “Sometimes the medicine is a little bitter but it is necessary to save the life of the patient,” he said. “My job was to try and make the enterprise successful, and in my view the best security a family can have is that the business they work for is strong.” But he said he did have some second thoughts about elements of his Bain Capital career. “The experience of the last eight years, running the Olympics and being a governor, would make me take an even more sensitive look at the impact of business decisions on the lives of suppliers and employees and others who are involved,” he said. &#x00bb; Need Election of 2008 &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Schlitz Bus - 1914 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
