http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6704313.stm | Europe | EU asks industry to fight obesity GMT 12:33 asks industry to fight obesity More than half of Europe's population is overweight Europe's food and drink industry could face new regulations if it does not try harder to tackle obesity, the European Commission has warned. Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou said Europe needed healthier food and stronger advertising codes. He urged industry to act voluntarily, but said a review in 2010 would decide whether new laws were needed. The commission will make proposals later this year on labelling food, to help consumers make healthy choices. "The figures are frightening. More than 50% of the adult population is overweight or obese, and more than 21 million children are overweight or obese," Mr Kyprianou said. Body Mass Index figures (healthy = 18.5 to 25) "Even more worrying, the rate of increase [among children] is more than 400,000 per year. Today's overweight children will be tomorrow's adults with all these chronic illnesses." He said some progress had been made in reducing the level of fats and salt in food, but not enough. The commission is also proposing programmes to promote consumption of fruit and vegetables, and a White Paper on sport. Mr Kyprianou said children no longer entertained themselves through physical activity, so member states should ensure schools re-introduced "physical activity as entertainment, fun and games" for every child. A high level group, including a representative from every member state, will be created to encourage the exchange of best practice. European consumers' group BEUC had urged the commission to introduce binding regulation on advertising and nutritional labelling. "It seems that the commission has taken the easy way out by adopting a voluntary approach, combined with a policy of wait-and-see," said BEUC director, Jim Murray. The commission says poor diets and low levels of physical activity account for six of the seven leading risk factors for ill health in Europe. The World Health Organization says the prevalence of obesity has more than trebled in many European countries since the 1980s. organ donor card proposed EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules A think tank argues against channelling aid through the EU Sarkozy excites and worries EU EU fails to excite Bulgarians Mark Mardell on the US plan to bring its missile shield to Europe THE UK AND EUROPE UK beach hygiene hailed in report Migrants 'want to settle in UK' A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future Health and Consumer Protection Directorate General blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6705667.stm 31 May 2007, 14:00 GMT 15:00 who want to quit can struggle to break the addiction A prescription-only pill to help people quit smoking has received draft approval for use on the NHS. Varenicline (Champix) is the first non-nicotine drug developed specifically to help smokers give up, and was licensed in the UK in 2006. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence said the drug should normally be given alongside counselling and support. Final guidance is due in July - the start of the smoking ban in England. Varenicline, produced by Pfizer, is unusual as it both stimulates and blocks specific nicotinic receptors in the brain. Graphic: How Varenicline works It is thought that by stimulating the receptor it mimics the effects of nicotine to reduce cravings. At the same time, it partially blocks the receptor preventing nicotine from binding to it, resulting in a weaker response in people who give in to temptation and have a cigarette. Some people have tried nicotine replacement therapy and been unsuccessful Trials have shown the drug was effective after a 12-week course, with 44% of smokers managing to stop. This compares with 18% of those given a placebo and 30% of those taking another anti-smoking drug, bupropion, which is also available on the NHS. The main side-effect of the drug, which costs about £1.95 a day or £163.80 for a 12-week course, seems to be nausea. The charity Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) had issued interim guidelines following discussions with the Department of Health to help health professionals prescribe the new treatment, while awaiting a decision from NICE, whose draft recommendations are still subject to appeal. A spokeswoman for NICE said: "Having looked at all the evidence, our independent committee have concluded that varenicline appears to be a good way to help people who want to quit smoking. "The draft guidance also recommends that varenicline should normally be provided in conjunction with counselling and support, but if such support is not available, this should not stop smokers receiving treatment with varenicline." Due to the burden placed upon the NHS by smokers it makes economic sense to fund this treatment Send us your comments From 1 July, there will be a ban on smoking in virtually all enclosed work and public places in England. Experts have predicted a surge of smokers attending NHS stop-smoking services in the run-up to the ban. Nicotine replacement therapy and buproprion - an antidepressant that has been found to help smokers quit - are already widely available on the NHS. Amanda Sanford, spokesperson for ASH, said the NICE guidance would push PCTs to offer varenicline as an alternative. "It's important smokers are offered a choice as some people have tried nicotine replacement therapy and been unsuccessful. "There's no reason varenicline can't be offered as a first-line treatment as it has been shown to be cost-effective," she said. Dr Alex Bobak, a GP in Wandsworth, south London, and a smoking cessation expert, said more people were asking about stopping smoking in the run-up to the ban. "It's tremendous we can offer this option for smokers who want to quit. "I've been using [varenicline] an awful lot and people have been asking about it." Nicotine from a cigarette stimulates the release of dopamine - a substance produced by the body which triggers feelings of pleasure When a smoker quits, the lack of nicotine leads to reduced levels of dopamine, causing feelings of craving and withdrawal Varenicline both blocks the nicotine receptors (reducing the addictive power of the drug) and triggers moderate dopamine release to alleviate withdrawal symptoms Return to the top BBC News 24 will be discussing the smoking ban in the England, which comes into force on July 1, and would like to put your questions on the subject to experts, who will answer them live on air on Friday. Send your questions using the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction to the decision to approve Champix Should the NHS pay for stop-smoking drugs? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date 12 smoking drug available in UK 05 Dec urged to help smokers quit 25 Apr smoke ban to start 1 July 01 Dec 06 | Politics A few cigarettes a day 'deadly' 22 Sep 05 | Health Smokers urged to quit before ops 23 Oct 06 | Norfolk NHS Stop Smoking Services
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6706437.stm | Americas | US steps up precautions over TB GMT 22:21 steps up precautions over TB Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection spread through the air US officials have begun a worldwide search for people who may have come into contact with a man infected with a drug-resistant form of tuberculosis. They say crew and passengers on the same flights as the man, from Atlanta to Paris and from Prague to Montreal this month, should be checked. The man was honeymooning in Italy when he was told he had the rare form of TB - but still decided to return home. He is now under federal quarantine, the first issued in over 44 years. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has identified the illness as "extensively drug-resistant TB". This bacteria is a very deadly bacteria - we just have to err on the side of caution Dr Julie Gerberding, CDC CDC director Julie Gerberding said it was looking through passenger lists to try to find people who may have come into contact with the man, whose name has not been made public. "Is the patient himself highly infectious? Fortunately, in this case, he's probably not...," Dr Gerberding said, adding that the bacteria was "very deadly". "We just have to err on the side of caution." The man told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he knew he had a form of tuberculosis but not that it was so serious. He told the paper doctors had not told him to avoid flying, the Associated Press said. When he was on honeymoon he was told by health officials that he should surrender himself to Italian authorities. "I thought to myself: You're nuts. I wasn't going to do that. They told me I had been put on the no-fly list and my passport was flagged," the man said. The last federal quarantine order was issued in 1963, to isolate a patient with smallpox, according to the CDC. Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection that usually attacks the lungs. It is spread through the air and can lead to symptoms such as chest pain and coughing up blood. There were an estimated 1.6 million deaths from TB in 2005, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The infected man travelled from Atlanta to Paris on 12 May on Air France flight 385. He returned to the North America on CSA flight 104 from Prague to Montreal on 24 May and continued his journey by car. CDC officials said the man was potentially infectious during this period and are recommending that crew members and passengers on board the same flights seek medical attention. "We want to make sure that we have done everything we possibly can to identify people who could be at risk," said Dr Gerberding. TB is rare in the US. Last year there were 13,767 recorded cases or 4.6 cases per 100,000 Americans. About 1.2% of cases in the US are "multidrug-resistant", and can withstand antibiotics commonly used to treat the illness, according to CDC statistics. The "extensively drug-resistant" TB is more dangerous. Medical treatment can cost $500,000 (£250,000) or more, CDC officials say. in TB flight infection warning 29 urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6707463.stm 31 May 2007, 11:53 GMT 12:53 difficile rates have been on the rise Thousands of cases of the hospital bug Clostridium difficile have not been reported in recent years, data shows. Hospitals have been required to submit C. difficile rates since 2004 - but only for over 65s until April this year when all patients have been included. Data from 171 NHS trusts in England - over 90% of the total - showed there has been an extra 26,000 cases on top of the 176,450 infections reported. Tory MP Grant Shapps, who compiled the figures, said they were "shocking". C. difficile is a bacterium found in the gut of up to 3% of healthy adults and 66% of infants, although it rarely causes problems Certain antibiotics can disturb the normal balance, allowing the bug to thrive and causing severe diarrhoea and in some cases severe inflammation of the bowel which can be life threatening Quick guide: Hospital bugs He asked all hospital trusts in England for their C. difficile statistics - most have the data for all patients but only publish the over 65s under the government's surveillance scheme. He said: "This investigation reveals that the number of C. difficile cases has been dramatically underestimated with the government simply ignoring anyone who contracts the infection, but happens to be under the age of 65." And he added; "It is an absolute scandal that I had to go to these lengths to get the true figures revealed." C difficile is linked to twice as many deaths as MRSA, and, unlike the so-called superbug, C difficile infection rates are still on the rise. 'No room for complacency' The number of cases in 2006 rose by 8% on the previous year to 55,000 infections. A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "There is no room for complacency. "We are clear - one avoidable infection is one too many and we are determined to ensure that the NHS has in place good hygiene and clinical procedures "We have recognised that C. difficile is a growing problem - which is why, along with our action programme to tackle all infections, we have a number of specific interventions. "We have improved the surveillance system to provide better local data, and local trusts have agreed local targets to significantly reduce C. difficile infections." and information to help you get more from the NHS 26 Apr over deadly hospital bugs 30 Jan superbug claims may surge 30 Nov on the hospital superbug 09 Feb squads' to help tackle MRSA 06 Feb deaths up by nearly quarter 23 Feb
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm timeline 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview at a Glance
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm BBC News Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6703467.stm out' HIV testing launched GMT 12:46 out' HIV testing launched HIV tests should be offered routinely Countries with HIV epidemics should carry out HIV tests on everyone attending health centres unless they 'opt out', say experts Issuing new guidance, the World Health Organisation said 200 million people could benefit from the policy. Currently 80% of people infected with HIV in areas such as sub-Saharan Africa do not know they have it. However, no test should be done against a person's wishes or without their knowledge, the guidelines stress. Forcing them to carry out HIV tests insults their intelligence in such a way that they are no different from animals Omara Daniel Allan, Kampala Send us your comments Dr Kevin De Cock, director of WHO HIV/Aids said too many opportunities to diagnose the infection were being missed. Industrialised countries also need to take note of the guidance which recommends offering a test to everyone who presents with symptoms suggestive of HIV and people in high-risk groups, such as those attending sexual health clinics. Recent surveys in sub-Saharan Africa showed on average just 12% of men and 10% of women have been tested for HIV and received their test results. Until now, testing was only done if a person requested it. But in countries with HIV epidemic that affects the whole population, all patients attending all health facilities should now be offered testing, whether or not the patient has symptoms of HIV disease and regardless of the patient's reason for attending the health centre. The HIV test would be carried out unless the patient declines. Tests in low income countries cost up to $2 US dollars. People must be fully informed before testing and receive counselling afterwards, the guidance states. And patients should receive support to avoid potential negative consequences of knowing and disclosing their HIV status, such as discrimination or violence. Access to antiretroviral therapy is not a pre-requisite to testing but countries must have a treatment plan in place, which includes an intention to introduce the drugs when possible. "Globally the number of people living with HIV who are aware of their infection status is quite low - 20% in low and middle income countries" said Dr De Cock. "Even in the industrialised world the situation is far from satisfactory." "This is a significant shift but it builds on current recommendations and this document was based on lengthy consultation." Dr Paul De Lay, director of monitoring and evaluation at UNAids said it had been estimated that 200 million people worldwide could be offered tests which meant they had access to prevention advice and treatment if the were infected. "If we are going to get ahead of this epidemic, rapidly scaled up HIV treatment and prevention efforts are critical - and increased uptake of HIV testing will be fundamental to making this a reality," he said. "At the same time, and in all cases of HIV testing and counselling, the three Cs - that is consent, confidentiality and counselling - must be respected." Routinely offered HIV testing and counselling has already been implemented in a range of clinical settings in several countries, including Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda and Zambia. Some countries, such as Canada, Thailand, UK and the US offer tests in high-risk settings. Lisa Power, of the UK HIV charity Terrence Higgins Trust, said: "We fully support these recommendations. "In the UK, this means that sexual health clinics and health services for those at particular risk of HIV should be recommending HIV testing - something which we've been advocating for some time. "A third of people with HIV don't know they have it and many of them may never have considered testing. We need this proactive approach to help these people as early as possible." Deborah Jack, chief executive of the National AIDS Trust, said: "Healthcare workers, particularly in primary care, also need training so that they can identify symptoms of HIV as early as possible." HIV tests be compulsory? 30 Your Say WHO agrees HIV circumcision plan 28 Mar HIV vaccine trial launch 08 Feb epidemic 'is getting worse' 21 Nov on home HIV tests 'outdated' 19 Jan for widespread HIV testing 15 Aug for HIV testing in casualty 27
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6705215.stm chemical 'may boost memory' GMT 00:03 chemical 'may boost memory' Epicatechin is found in grapes A chemical found in chocolate, tea, grapes and blueberries can improve the memory of mice, research suggests. The Salk Institute study could lead to further tests to see if epicatechin also works on humans. The study, published in the Journal of Neuroscience, suggests it improves blood flow in the brain - especially in combination with extra exercise. However, nutritionists warn chocolate is high in fat and sugar, which may undo any potential benefits. We'd obviously recommend a diet rich in fruit and vegetables, with perhaps a small amount of chocolate - but eating five bars a day is likely to just make you fatter, without any noticeable improvement in memory Spokesman, British Nutrition Foundation This is not the first study to find a link between 'flavanol' chemicals in certain foods and health benefits - other studies claim that cardiovascular health can be improved by including them in the diet. The researchers, led by Dr Henriette van Praag, working with chocolate firm Mars, compared mice fed a typical diet with those fed a diet supplemented with epicatechin. Half the mice in each group were allowed to run on a wheel for two hours each day and then, a month later, were trained to find a platform hidden in a pool of water. Those that both exercised and ate the epicatechin diet remembered the location of the platform longer than the other mice. The epicatechin-fed mice who did not exercise also showed enhanced memory, but to a lesser degree. The mice on the special diet appeared to have greater blood vessel growth in certain parts of their brain, alongside more mature brain nerve cells. Chocolate is another source Dr van Praag said: "A logical next step will be to study the effects of epicatechin on memory and brain blood flow in aged animals - and then humans, combined with mild exercise." Dr Mark Mattson, from the US National Institute on Ageing, said: "This is an important advance because it identifies a single natural chemical with memory-enhancing effects, suggesting it may be possible to optimise brain function by combining exercise and dietary supplementation." However, a spokesman for the British Nutrition Foundation said that while there was some evidence that diets rich in flavanols could be beneficial in humans, often when flavanols such as epicatechin were given on their own, no benefits could be spotted. She added: "We'd obviously recommend a diet rich in fruit and vegetables, with perhaps a small amount of chocolate - but eating five bars a day is likely to just make you fatter, without any noticeable improvement in memory." nutrient for 'lethal ills' 11 Mar 'better than kissing' 16 Apr trial on heart patients 10 Apr
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6707175.stm says IVF couples exploited 31 May 2007, 10:53 GMT 11:53 says IVF couples exploited Lord Winston says IVF couples are being charged over the odds The IVF industry is exploiting UK couples, charging them over the odds for treatment, fertility expert Lord Robert Winston said on Wednesday. Speaking at the Hay Literary Festival in Wales, the Imperial College London professor also criticised the fertility watchdog the HFEA on its duty of care. The HFEA maintained it policed clinics and provided information to patients. One private IVF clinic said it was impossible to generalise about the private sector. It is very easy to exploit people by the fact that they're desperate and you've got the technology which they want Lord Winston said couples were being overcharged for fertility treatments, and some were being offered embryo screening tests for which there was no clinical justification. He criticised doctors in the UK for overpriced treatments, and said it was "rather depressing" to consider that some IVF treatments in London cost 10 times the fees charged in Melbourne, Australia. There are 85 licensed fertility clinics in the UK, and treatments at private clinics cost between £4,000 and £8,000 per cycle. According to the latest figures, more than 30,000 patients underwent IVF in 2004, and the HFEA estimates around 80% of treatments are performed privately. Lord Winston said: "One of the major problems facing us in healthcare is that IVF has become a massive commercial industry. "It's very easy to exploit people by the fact that they're desperate and you've got the technology which they want, which may not work." He said clinicians and scientists doing the work did not want to explore the implications of treatments and were not engaging with the public. But Dr Rajat Goswamy, medical director of the Harley Street Fertility Centre, said it was impossible to generalise about the private sector, and that many clinics were not offering some of the more controversial treatments available. He said the costs of IVF treatments in London had to be high to cover staffing and rental costs. Lord Winston also criticised the HFEA, saying it had done a "consistently bad job" at providing information to couples and limiting the availability of unscientific treatments. The HFEA said it did hold clinics accountable to ensure the safety and appropriateness of IVF treatments. A spokeswoman said: "We consider patient information to be extremely important, and so produce a wide range of information for patients." She said the HFEA also scrutinised the quality of information given to patients by clinics, but that it did not have a role in regulating treatments other than IVF procedures offered by clinics. denies 'IVF cut' claims 01 Apr 07 | UK NHS fertility care is 'a lottery' 02 Mar table of IVF clinics 10 Jan Guide - Fertility
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6704541.stm | South Asia | India alarm over HIV in new areas GMT 17:40 alarm over HIV in new areas India has more HIV infections than any other country, the UN says India health officials are alarmed by the growing numbers of pregnant women infected with HIV/Aids in the key states of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar. The northern states are among India's most backward, with huge populations but poor literacy and health services. Officials say workers who migrate to cities in search of work bring the infection back to the states with them. They say unless the state governments get serious about tackling the disease, there could be an Aids epidemic. According to UN estimates, India has the highest number of HIV infections with 5.7 million people carrying the virus. The head of India's government-run National Aids Control Organisation (Naco), Sujatha Rao, told the BBC that urgent measures were needed in UP and Bihar to "stem the epidemic". There is a shift from urban to rural and from high risk to low risk categories Uttar Pradesh Aids Control Authority She was speaking after a countrywide survey to collect India's latest HIV/Aids figures. Full results of the annual Aids survey will be made public in early June. Ms Rao said the districts of Etawah, Banda and Lalitpur in UP had been found to have more than 1% of pregnant mothers infected with the virus. A high number of pregnant woman infected with HIV had also been identified in the districts of Lakhiserai and Saharsa of Bihar. Ms Rao says she is concerned over the slow response of the two state governments in dealing with the problem. The two state governments have "not realised" the seriousness of the problem but "we remain hopeful", she says. Ms Rao says the situation in UP and Bihar compares with that in the southern state of Tamil Nadu 10 years ago. Tamil Nadu is another high prevalence state as far as HIV infections are concerned, but what makes matters far more serious in the two northern states is their poor healthcare system. To compound matters, Ms Rao says, most cases of HIV/Aids infection in UP and Bihar go unreported because of the social stigma attached to the disease. The Naco chief's concern is shared by representatives of Aids control programmes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which together have a population of more than 280 million people. Officials say the virus is spreading to low-risk groups Health officials say the main cause of the growing incidence of HIV/Aids is migrant labour. RP Mathur of the Uttar Pradesh Aids Control Authority says around 60% of HIV cases reported come from the socially and economically backward eastern part of the state. "There is a shift from the urban to rural and from high-risk to low-risk categories" in the last few years, he says. Mr Mathur says it is estimated that UP has more than half a million HIV positive cases, but only 20,000 of them have been reported, due to the stigma attached to the disease. Bihar Aids Control Authority representative Vishal Singh says most of the infections have been detected in people who had migrated to work in places outside the state. "They get infected in industrial cities like Surat [in Gujarat] and return home to Bihar and have unprotected sex with their wives. This has to be controlled," he says. Mr Singh says given the poor economic situation in Bihar, it is important that more developed states like Gujarat take steps to educate migrants labourers working there. Rashmi Sharma of the Population Foundation of India, a non-government organisation involved in spreading awareness about HIV/Aids, says migrant labourers cannot solely be blamed. "A local community will have to take the blame for its inability to control the problem," she says. "The problem lies within the community and they have to be involved in looking for a solution." UP and Bihar are two of India's states which rank lowest on the human development index - they have high levels of illiteracy, unemployment and poor social infrastructure. Officials say it is only the wide gap between the estimated and reported cases which has kept the two states off the list of high prevalence states Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in the south, Maharashtra in the west and Manipur and Nagaland in the north-east are considered high HIV prevalence states in India. There has been much debate about whether India does indeed have more people living with HIV than any other country. A study by British journal BMC Medicine last December suggested that methods used to estimate the number of infections in India were flawed and that the true figure could be about 40% of the estimated numbers. 'afflicting global workforce' India the HIV 'global epicentre' Gates gives $287m for research HIV infections 'may have peaked' Children missing out on HIV drugs HIV origin 'found in wild chimps' HIV-positive children face a bleak future in Russia, the BBC's Emma Simpson finds 'Why I abstain from sex' 'I am not afraid of Aids' Hope amid Malawi's Aids crisis 'Bug chasers': Fantasy or fact? 'My life with HIV' Timeline: 25 years of HIV/Aids The biology of Aids What could combat Aids? Indian Ministry of Health and Family Welfare National Aids Control Organisation, India SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6707949.stm | Contact lens solution is recalled 31 May 2007, 12:32 GMT 13:32 lens solution is recalled Contact lenses are cleaned and stored in lens solutions A contact lens solution is being recalled in the UK because of concerns that it could cause eye infections. Complete Moisture Plus was pulled from sale in the US six days ago following a warning from the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. US government officials linked the solution to acanthamoeba keratitis (AK), a painful eye infection. Advanced Medical Optics (AMO) which makes the solution, has issued the recall as a "precautionary measure". AMO said in a statement: "The recall is being initiated because of concerns over eye infections from acanthamoeba, a naturally occurring water-borne organism which can contribute to serious corneal infections." The recall is not related to contamination and no other AMO products are affected, the firm added. The company is asking contact lens wearers who begin suffering eye pain, redness, blurred vision or sensitivity to light to seek medical attention. There are reports of 138 cases of eye infections in the US which are being investigated. But AMO said it had not received any reports of UK users suffering eye problems. Those who swim or shower while wearing contact lenses, use tap water to clean their lenses or come into contact with contaminated water are most are most prone to getting AK, the company said. The eye infection can lead to permanent vision loss or blindness in rare cases. eye contact lens maker 25 Coping with a company disaster 15 How effective are product recalls? 20 Feb 07 | Magazine US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention in anti-terror targets
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm The facts 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6703451.stm | Hereford/Worcs | Hamster bite puts man in hospital GMT 08:49 bite puts man in hospital A man was taken to hospital after suffering a severe allergic reaction when he was bitten by a hamster. The 50-year-old was trying to retrieve his pet from under the floorboards of his home near Evesham, Worcestershire, when the rodent attacked. It had escaped after his seven-year-old daughter had accidentally let it out of its cage on Monday night. Paramedics said the man survived largely through giving himself anti-allergy drugs before they arrived. He had suffered severe breathing difficulties and was in a semi-conscious state when the ambulance arrived at his home. They gave him further medication and took him to Alexandra Hospital, in Redditch. An ambulance service spokesman said: "If you have been identified as someone who can have severe reactions it is vital that you and your family know what to do. "The man's actions in administering drugs to himself may well have played an important part in his recovery." Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester Boy is treated with hamster cells 12 Apr 07 | West Yorkshire Trapped hamster saved by vacuum 14 Mar 07 | Staffordshire Hamsters thrown out with rubbish 05 Feb 07 | Sussex Hideaway hamster finds new home 26 Sep 06 | Devon Hamster survives giant shredder 02 Jun 06 | North East Wales West Midlands Ambulance Service injury unit to have doctor Duo fined for dating website joke Police introduce new head cameras
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6702295.stm | Tories 'to carry on Blair reform' GMT 21:14 'to carry on Blair reform' Mr Osborne says Labour is abandoning the centre ground The Conservatives are best placed to carry on Tony Blair's public service reforms, the shadow chancellor says. George Osborne claimed Gordon Brown, the next prime minister, had "abandoned the centre ground of public service reform to the Conservative Party". The Tories would therefore have "a great opportunity to improve life for the many, not the few", he added. But at a hustings event later Mr Brown said there would be "no retreat" from the centre ground of British politics. Mr Blair has called for personalised services which allow people to choose schools and hospitals. Mr Osborne told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Mr Blair's ideas on choice were right, but said he had been wrong to impose them from Whitehall. He said: "I'm saying work with the public service professionals, work with teachers, work with doctors to give them much greater power over their local services and to give the users of these services... the choice that is the driver of improvement in every other walk of life and can be the driver of improvement in public services. The roadblocks to reform are being put into place In full: Osborne speech "The fact that Gordon Brown has abandoned the centre ground of public service reform to the Conservative Party is a great opportunity for us to improve life... for the many not the few." In a speech later to the Policy Exchange think tank, Mr Osborne said that while the Tories and Mr Blair agreed on "the essentials of the way forward", Mr Brown, due to take over by the end of June, was not part of the "growing consensus". He said the deputy leadership debates had shown that Labour was poised to move to the left, abandoning the centre ground. "The roadblocks to reform are being put into place," he said. But Labour chairwoman Hazel Blears, who is one of six candidates for the deputy leadership, said on Wednesday night she "completely and utterly rejected" Mr Osborne's accusation that the party was "lurching to the left". We are going to stand on our principles and our beliefs and stand firmly in the centre ground of British politics "It is the Labour party that is in touch with the ambitions of people in this country," she said. And Mr Brown told people at the hustings event in Leicester there would be "no retreat" to "soft options" or the failed policies of the past. "That is what the Conservative Party did and it lost them three elections," he said. "We are going to stand on our principles and our beliefs and stand firmly in the centre ground of British politics." The solution which would provide immediate, quality health care at no large cost to the patient at the point of treatment is compulsory insurance The Tories say public services should become less "top-down", with more decisions made locally. Mr Osborne said they would not limit the number of academies that could be created, they would devolve healthcare budgets to GPs and patients and would offer disabled people a personalised budget to control how the money was spent. His speech came as the party sought to end the row over grammar schools. And while Mr Osborne rejected "alternative funding mechanisms like social insurance", Conservative MP Peter Bone wrote an article on his website calling for a system of private health insurance to be brought in. Mr Bone said that radical reform of the NHS was needed, and "the solution which would provide immediate, quality health care at no large cost to the patient at the point of treatment is compulsory insurance". full: George Osborne speech 30 Who is the real heir to Blair? 30 Brown pledges academy support 15 How Blair shaped public services 10 Blair tackles NHS critics head-on 30 Apr for 'personalised' services 19 Mar 07 | Politics Tories can save NHS, says Cameron 18 Mar 07 | Politics Reform getting faster, says Blair 24 Jan 07 | Politics issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6705209.stm GMT 00:31 woman take multivitamins in pregnancy Healthy pregnant women should think twice before taking iron supplements, say researchers who have linked high doses to blood pressure problems. Iron is often given to combat anaemia in pregnancy, but many women take extra iron, on its own or in a multivitamin. The Iranian university study, published in the British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, gave some women a 30mg daily dose as part of its research. UK experts say that this amount should only be taken on GP advice. The UK Food Standards Agency says that lower doses in UK multivitamins are unlikely to harm women. Anaemia is often associated with low birth weight and preterm births, but this does not mean that women should be popping iron pills, or any vitamin pills indiscriminately Professor Philip Steer, editor, British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Anaemia is a common condition in pregnant women, which, if left unchecked, can contribute to premature births and low birthweight babies. It is caused by a lack of red blood cells, and taking iron on prescription helps the body produce more. The researchers from Tarbiat Modarres University wanted to check the effect of iron supplements on women whose red blood cell level was normal. They gave 370 women a 150mg dose of ferrous sulphate, which equates to approximately 30mg of actual iron, every day throughout their pregnancy. A similar number of women were given a "placebo" dummy pill containing no iron. The number of women with diagnosed high blood pressure - a disorder which can also cause problems for mother and baby - was higher in the women given the iron pills than in the other group. Many countries still offer iron pills as a routine measure for all pregnant women, and lead researcher Professor Saedeh Ziaei said: "Our trial suggests that administering it even in non-anaemic women." Professor Philip Steer, the editor of the BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, said: "Anaemia is often associated with low birth weight and preterm births, but this does not mean that women should be popping iron pills, or any vitamin pills indiscriminately, to prevent poor pregnancy outcomes." We consider that the supplements available in this country are safe, and it is up to the individual woman to choose A spokesman for the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said that women should avoid taking extra iron unless recommended by their doctor or midwife. Routine iron supplementation is not practised in the UK, but blood is tested for signs of anaemia more than once during pregnancy as a matter of course. However, many healthy pregnant women take once-a-day multivitamin pills that contain smaller doses of iron - normally around 100% of the recommended dose of 15mg. Official bodies such as the Food Standards Agency recommend that pregnant women take extra vitamins such as folic acid and vitamin D, but don't encourage any other vitamin supplementation, saying that a balanced healthy diet provides all the vitamins needed. However, they said that taking 17mg or less a day - the amount UK multivitamin brands contain - was 'unlikely to be harmful'. A spokesman for the baby charity Tommy's also stressed the importance of a healthy diet, but added that women were free to take supplements if they chose. "We consider that the supplements available in this country are safe, and it is up to the individual woman to choose." women 'oily fish alert' 12 Oct 'can damage baby bonding' 05 Apr 05 | Health Vit D linked to baby birth weight 25 Apr absorption mystery 'solved' 10 Sep 05 | Health BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6706743.stm | Cardinal sounds abortion warning 31 May 2007, 15:42 GMT 16:42 sounds abortion warning The cardinal has been accused of using inflammatory words Catholic politicians who defend abortion should not expect to remain full church members, Scotland's most senior Roman Catholic has warned. In a sermon marking 40 years since the Abortion Act, Cardinal Keith O'Brien said pro-abortion MPs should consider their stance on receiving Communion. He said the abortion rate north of the border was equivalent to "two Dunblane massacres a day". The cardinal's opponents have accused him of using inflammatory language. We're told by statisticians that the equivalent of a classroom of children every day are being aborted in their mothers' womb Send us your comments Profile: 'Cardinal of Controversy' They said it was up to elected officials to decide such ethical issues without facing threats from church leaders. Abortion remains a reserved issue, legislated over by politicians at Westminster. Speaking at St Mary's Cathedral in Edinburgh, the cardinal urged decision-makers to stop supporting what he labelled an "unspeakable crime". And he called on voters to reject candidates who defend a "social evil". Cardinal O'Brien said: "We are killing - in our country - the equivalent of a classroom of kids every single day. "Can you imagine that? Two Dunblane massacres a day in our country going on and on. And when's it going to stop? "I can't change the teachings of Jesus Christ. I can't change the 10 Commandments. That's what I'm ordained to teach and to preach: 'Thou shalt not kill."' BBC religious affairs correspondent, Robert Pigott, said Cardinal O'Brien has been frustrated by what he sees as the marginalisation of Christian values in public affairs. He has embarked on his boldest intervention yet in political life, our correspondent said. His sermon attacked the 1967 act, describing the roughly seven million abortions in Britain since then as an "unspeakable crime" and the "wanton killing of innocents". What Cardinal O'Brien has done is bring it up in a manner that makes people stop and listen Editor, Scottish Catholic Observer The cardinal told the BBC: "We're told by statisticians that the equivalent of a classroom of children every day are being aborted in their mothers' womb - basically murdered in their mothers' womb." However, his intervention has angered some politicians. Jeremy Purvis, a Liberal Democrat member of the Scottish Parliament, said the cardinal was using "inflammatory" language. He said: "It is not right that we would be seen to be put under pressure, or indeed some members threatened, by a religious leader on what is a very sensitive issue." A Liberal Democrat spokesman in Westminster said abortion was a matter for the individual conscience and that Mr Purvis was giving his own personal view as a liberal politician. That view was echoed by the main parties in Scotland. Minister for public health, Shona Robison, said that the Scottish government was committed to improving Scotland's sexual health and reducing the number of unintended pregnancies through Respect and Responsibility, the national sexual health strategy. SNP MSP Michael Matheson said the Catholic Church would be "hypocritical" if it didn't speak out against abortion and those who supported it. He added: "I think it is perfectly reasonable for the Catholic leader in Scotland to effectively assert Catholic social teaching that is opposed to abortion. "If you had a situation where politicians who were voting in favour of abortion were then expected to be able to participate fully within a Catholic Mass then the church itself would be derelicting its responsibility to uphold its own teachings." Harry Conroy, editor of the Scottish Catholic Observer, said the paper fully supported Cardinal O'Brien's stance on abortion. Mr Conroy denied that the cardinal had used extreme language. "What Cardinal O'Brien has done is bring it up in a manner that makes people stop and listen," he said. Ann Furedi, chief executive of the British Pregnancy Advisory Service, said: "Abortion is a safe, legal and medically legitimate procedure, essential in safeguarding women's reproductive health. "Women should be able to make their own choices about their bodies and their future. The cardinal has every right to hold his views. He obviously doesn't have to have an abortion, or provide one." AND AUDIO NEWS The Cardinal explains why he is intervening in politics Increase in abortions in Scotland 29 Cardinal makes environment plea 08 Apr 07 | Scotland Scottish Catholic Media Office appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' OAP billed for home's demolition
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:05 GMT 17:05 UK non-nicotine drug specifically designed to help smokers quit is approved for use on the NHS. 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Quit smoking drug available in UK of cases of the hospital bug Clostridium difficile have not been reported in recent years, data shows. pregnant women who take iron supplements may increase blood pressure risks, a study claims. Contact lens solution is recalled Expert says IVF couples exploited Food chemical 'memory boost' Cardinal sounds abortion warning Bush pledges funds to fight Aids US steps up precautions over TB ALSO IN THE NEWS Test can spot those who don't keep their minds on the job VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS US schools issue 'fat reports' The hazards of getting medical supplies to the people of Iraq Can living under the flightpath damage your health? China deploys death penalty in battle against fake drugs Pesticides 'up Parkinson's risk' EU-wide organ donor card plan 'Opt out' HIV testing launched India alarm over HIV spread EU asks industry to fight obesity Hamster bite puts man in hospital Tories 'to carry on Blair reform' Drug cost reforms 'may cost NHS' Heart disease and stroke X-ray technology in the 21st century Scientists find bird flu antibody Alcohol health warnings by 2008 How X-ray technology is revolutionising patient care A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES How to minimise health risks posed by plane journeys ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6702107.stm cost reforms 'may cost NHS' GMT 08:29 cost reforms 'may cost NHS' The OFT spent 18 months looking at drugs pricing Reforms of the drugs pricing system may cost the NHS money, an economist says. The Office of Fair Trading has proposed the cost of drugs to the NHS should be based on health impact, rather than the cost to manufacturers as happens now. The OFT had estimated the move could save the NHS £500m from its £7bn bill, the Health Economics journal reported. York University expert Professor Karl Claxton said the plan was well-founded but may cost the NHS more and said industry should cover any extra costs. OFT officials spent 18 months studying the drugs market before proposing a value-based pricing system , which would allow companies to charge higher prices for those drugs that delivered the greatest health benefits. Such a radical shake-up is bound to worry people within the industry, but most fears are unfounded Professor Karl Claxton, of York University At the moment, prices are determined by the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme, which allows companies to set their own prices within broad profit constraints. The OFT suggested a move to value-based pricing could save £500m, although it did not fully establish how cost-effectiveness should be measured. But Professor Claxton said: "Under the new scheme, the NHS will only take on technologies if they are cost-effective - that means the health benefits of using the technology must be greater than health displaced elsewhere in the NHS.. "This will provide a powerful incentive for companies to concentrate on cost-effective delivery when they develop new therapies." But he said such an approach could actually lead to an increase in the drugs bill as companies try to produce treatments they get more money for. Professor Claxton added a system of safeguards should be built into the system whereby industry compensates the NHS if the drugs bill goes over an agreed limit, while the health service hands money back if revenue drops below a set amount. The OFT declined to comment on the claims, but the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry said they were logical. A spokeswoman said: "We are not opposed to the system that is being proposed, it is just how it works in practice. "Current measures of cost-effectiveness do not take into account the impact of things such as a benefit of a person returning to work or not needing social care. "We are keen to see how the government responds to this." The government is expected to respond formally to the proposed value-based pricing system in the coming weeks. But a spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "The government is looking carefully at how to maintain and accelerate the flow of life saving, effective drugs on to the market, at a fair price for the NHS, that also rewards the innovation of pharmaceutical companies. "We have been listening carefully to a wide range of views and will publish our response later in the year." and contacts on NHS healthcare to help you take action NHS 'pays too much to drug firms' 20 Feb 07 | Business Probe into cap on drugs profits 17 Sep 05 | Health NHS medicine cost control urged 28 Jul 05 | Scotland Office of Fair Trading
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6701269.stm 'up Parkinson's risk' 29 May 2007, 23:18 GMT 00:18 'up Parkinson's risk' Some pesticides may be bad for human health Exposure to pesticides could lead to an increased risk of contracting Parkinson's disease, a study has found. Researchers discovered that high levels of exposure increased the risk by 39%, while even low levels raised it by 9%. However, the Aberdeen University researchers stressed that the overall risk of developing the disease remained small. In the UK, one person in 500 develops the incurable degenerative brain disease, or a similar illness. This doesn't prove that pesticides cause Parkinson's Disease - but does add to the weight of evidence of an association Dr Finlay Dick, Aberdeen University Symptoms often include unsteadiness and tremor in the hands or arms, often alongside difficulties with speech or movement. Other studies have pointed strongly towards exposure to pesticides being involved in some cases, with agricultural workers showing higher rates of the illness. The Aberdeen study, reported in the journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine, involved 959 cases of parkinsonism, a term used to describe people with diagnoses of Parkinson's Disease, and other, similar conditions. They all answered questioned about their lifetime occupational and recreational exposure to a variety of chemicals, including solvents, pesticides, iron, copper and manganese. Some have suggested that the head injuries involved in boxing could be linked to Parkinson's, so the patients were also asked whether they had ever been knocked unconscious. The study included more general questions about family health history and tobacco use. All the replies were then compared to those from a group of people of similar age and sex who had not been diagnosed with Parkinson's. They revealed that while having a family history of Parkinson's was the clearest risk factor for developing the disease, exposure to pesticides also gave a clear increase. People who had been knocked out once were 35% more at risk, while being knocked out on more than one occasion appeared to increase the risk by two-and-a-half times. However, the researchers acknowledged that it was impossible to tell from the results whether the patients had been knocked out after falling as a result of their Parkinson's. Dr Finlay Dick, the lead researcher, said: "What we have shown in the study is that with increasing risk to exposure to pesticides, the risk of Parkinson's Disease increases. "This doesn't prove that pesticides cause Parkinson's Disease - but does add to the weight of evidence of an association." A spokesman for the Parkinson's Disease Society echoed this: "The important finding from this study is confirmation that Parkinson's is not caused by any one factor, but instead a combination of genetic susceptibility and environmental factors." Georgina Downs, from the UK Pesticides Campaign, which represents people in rural communities, said: "Considering many pesticides are neurotoxic, then it isn't surprising that study after study has found associations with various chronic neurological and neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's. "This is highly significant in relation to the long-term exposure of rural residents and communities living near sprayed fields." in link to Parkinson's 25 May 05 | Scotland 'Parkinson's was not the end for me' 20 Apr Mar 03 | Medical notes Occupational and Environmental Medicine
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6706085.stm | Americas | Bush pledges funds to fight Aids GMT 19:46 pledges funds to fight Aids Sub-Saharan Africa still sees the most cases of HIV/Aids President George W Bush has asked the US Congress to set aside $30bn (£15bn) over five years for the global fight against HIV/Aids. He said the sum would double the current US commitment and provide treatment for 2.5 million people. Mr Bush said the funding would also be aimed at preventing more than 12 million new infections. The president said his wife Laura would visit Africa next month as part of the US campaign against Aids. "When I took office, an HIV diagnosis in Africa's poorest communities was usually a death sentence," Mr Bush said. HIV/Aids around the world "Once again, the generosity of the American people is one of the great untold stories of our time." In 2003, the US Government approved a $15bn package over five years to fight the spread of Aids. The US Congress stipulated that a proportion of those funds must be spent on encouraging abstinence-until-marriage programmes. United Nations agencies say about 40 million people worldwide are infected with Aids or HIV. Almost three-quarters of deaths from Aids last year occurred in sub-Saharan Africa, and two-thirds of those living with HIV are found there. The number living with the virus has increased everywhere, with the most striking increases in East Asia and Central Asia/Eastern Europe. On Wednesday the World Health Organization urged affected countries to carry out HIV tests on everyone attending health centres unless they "opt out". It said 200 million people could benefit from the policy. Currently 80% of people infected with HIV in areas such as sub-Saharan Africa do not know they have it. out' HIV testing launched 30 agrees HIV circumcision plan 28 Mar HIV vaccine trial launch 08 Feb epidemic 'is getting worse' 21 Nov for widespread HIV testing 15 Aug urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6703701.stm organ donor card proposed GMT 10:45 organ donor card proposed Organs for transplant are in short supply The EU could soon introduce an organ donor card covering all member states. The idea has been proposed by EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou, as a way to increase the number of organs available for transplant operations. A survey showed most Europeans support using donor cards - but only 12% actually carry one. Around 40,000 patients are on EU waiting lists for a transplant, and it is thought ten people a day die waiting in vain for a donor organ. The Commission's strategy paper suggests guidelines are drawn up to control the supply of surplus organs to countries in need. It also proposes creating organ transplant coordinators in hospitals and making better use of living donors. Mr Kyprianou said: "Organ donations save lives. A European organ donor card, and common EU standards on the quality and safety of organ donations and transplants, could secure a sufficient and safe supply or organs." An opinion poll carried out for the European Commission in late 2006 and published on Wednesday said 81% of EU citizens "support the use of organ donor cards". It also found that 56% of Europeans are willing to donate one of their organs after they die. Support for the idea of donating an organ was highest in Sweden (81%), and lowest in Romania (27%). The Netherlands, Sweden and Ireland had the highest take-up of donor cards. However, use of donor cards was extremely limited in member states which have joined the EU since 2004. Dutch television will air a reality show this week in which a dying woman chooses a recipient for her kidneys. The EU executive and the Dutch government said the show was unethical. However, the maker, BNN argued the show highlights the shortage of organ donors. organ donor card proposed EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules A think tank argues against channelling aid through the EU Sarkozy excites and worries EU EU fails to excite Bulgarians Mark Mardell on the US plan to bring its missile shield to Europe THE UK AND EUROPE UK beach hygiene hailed in report Migrants 'want to settle in UK' A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6704313.stm | Europe | EU asks industry to fight obesity GMT 12:33 UK asks industry to fight obesity More than half of Europe's population is overweight Europe's food and drink industry could face new regulations if it does not try harder to tackle obesity, the European Commission has warned. Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou said Europe needed healthier food and stronger advertising codes. He urged industry to act voluntarily, but said a review in 2010 would decide whether new laws were needed. The commission will make proposals later this year on labelling food, to help consumers make healthy choices. "The figures are frightening. More than 50% of the adult population is overweight or obese, and more than 21 million children are overweight or obese," Mr Kyprianou said. Body Mass Index figures (healthy = 18.5 to 25) "Even more worrying, the rate of increase [among children] is more than 400,000 per year. Today's overweight children will be tomorrow's adults with all these chronic illnesses." He said some progress had been made in reducing the level of fats and salt in food, but not enough. The commission is also proposing programmes to promote consumption of fruit and vegetables, and a White Paper on sport. Mr Kyprianou said children no longer entertained themselves through physical activity, so member states should ensure schools re-introduced "physical activity as entertainment, fun and games" for every child. A high level group, including a representative from every member state, will be created to encourage the exchange of best practice. European consumers' group BEUC had urged the commission to introduce binding regulation on advertising and nutritional labelling. "It seems that the commission has taken the easy way out by adopting a voluntary approach, combined with a policy of wait-and-see," said BEUC director, Jim Murray. The commission says poor diets and low levels of physical activity account for six of the seven leading risk factors for ill health in Europe. The World Health Organization says the prevalence of obesity has more than trebled in many European countries since the 1980s. organ donor card proposed EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules A think tank argues against channelling aid through the EU Sarkozy excites and worries EU EU fails to excite Bulgarians Mark Mardell on the US plan to bring its missile shield to Europe THE UK AND EUROPE UK beach hygiene hailed in report Migrants 'want to settle in UK' A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future Health and Consumer Protection Directorate General 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Russia blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6705667.stm | Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS 31 May 2007, 14:00 GMT 15:00 UK drug approved on NHS Smokers who want to quit can struggle to break the addiction A prescription-only pill to help people quit smoking has received draft approval for use on the NHS. Varenicline (Champix) is the first non-nicotine drug developed specifically to help smokers give up, and was licensed in the UK in 2006. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence said the drug should normally be given alongside counselling and support. Final guidance is due in July - the start of the smoking ban in England. Varenicline, produced by Pfizer, is unusual as it both stimulates and blocks specific nicotinic receptors in the brain. Graphic: How Varenicline works It is thought that by stimulating the receptor it mimics the effects of nicotine to reduce cravings. At the same time, it partially blocks the receptor preventing nicotine from binding to it, resulting in a weaker response in people who give in to temptation and have a cigarette. Some people have tried nicotine replacement therapy and been unsuccessful Trials have shown the drug was effective after a 12-week course, with 44% of smokers managing to stop. This compares with 18% of those given a placebo and 30% of those taking another anti-smoking drug, bupropion, which is also available on the NHS. The main side-effect of the drug, which costs about £1.95 a day or £163.80 for a 12-week course, seems to be nausea. The charity Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) had issued interim guidelines following discussions with the Department of Health to help health professionals prescribe the new treatment, while awaiting a decision from NICE, whose draft recommendations are still subject to appeal. A spokeswoman for NICE said: "Having looked at all the evidence, our independent committee have concluded that varenicline appears to be a good way to help people who want to quit smoking. "The draft guidance also recommends that varenicline should normally be provided in conjunction with counselling and support, but if such support is not available, this should not stop smokers receiving treatment with varenicline." Due to the burden placed upon the NHS by smokers it makes economic sense to fund this treatment Send us your comments From 1 July, there will be a ban on smoking in virtually all enclosed work and public places in England. Experts have predicted a surge of smokers attending NHS stop-smoking services in the run-up to the ban. Nicotine replacement therapy and buproprion - an antidepressant that has been found to help smokers quit - are already widely available on the NHS. Amanda Sanford, spokesperson for ASH, said the NICE guidance would push PCTs to offer varenicline as an alternative. "It's important smokers are offered a choice as some people have tried nicotine replacement therapy and been unsuccessful. "There's no reason varenicline can't be offered as a first-line treatment as it has been shown to be cost-effective," she said. Dr Alex Bobak, a GP in Wandsworth, south London, and a smoking cessation expert, said more people were asking about stopping smoking in the run-up to the ban. "It's tremendous we can offer this option for smokers who want to quit. "I've been using [varenicline] an awful lot and people have been asking about it." Nicotine from a cigarette stimulates the release of dopamine - a substance produced by the body which triggers feelings of pleasure When a smoker quits, the lack of nicotine leads to reduced levels of dopamine, causing feelings of craving and withdrawal Varenicline both blocks the nicotine receptors (reducing the addictive power of the drug) and triggers moderate dopamine release to alleviate withdrawal symptoms Return to the top BBC News 24 will be discussing the smoking ban in the England, which comes into force on July 1, and would like to put your questions on the subject to experts, who will answer them live on air on Friday. Send your questions using the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction to the decision to approve Champix Should the NHS pay for stop-smoking drugs? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date 12 May smoking drug available in UK 05 Dec 06 | Health Firms urged to help smokers quit 25 Apr smoke ban to start 1 July 01 Dec 06 | Politics A few cigarettes a day 'deadly' 22 Sep 05 | Health Smokers urged to quit before ops 23 Oct 06 | Norfolk NHS Stop Smoking Services drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6706437.stm | Americas | US steps up precautions over TB GMT 22:21 UK steps up precautions over TB Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection spread through the air US officials have begun a worldwide search for people who may have come into contact with a man infected with a drug-resistant form of tuberculosis. They say crew and passengers on the same flights as the man, from Atlanta to Paris and from Prague to Montreal this month, should be checked. The man was honeymooning in Italy when he was told he had the rare form of TB - but still decided to return home. He is now under federal quarantine, the first issued in over 44 years. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has identified the illness as "extensively drug-resistant TB". This bacteria is a very deadly bacteria - we just have to err on the side of caution Dr Julie Gerberding, CDC CDC director Julie Gerberding said it was looking through passenger lists to try to find people who may have come into contact with the man, whose name has not been made public. "Is the patient himself highly infectious? Fortunately, in this case, he's probably not...," Dr Gerberding said, adding that the bacteria was "very deadly". "We just have to err on the side of caution." The man told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution that he knew he had a form of tuberculosis but not that it was so serious. He told the paper doctors had not told him to avoid flying, the Associated Press said. When he was on honeymoon he was told by health officials that he should surrender himself to Italian authorities. "I thought to myself: You're nuts. I wasn't going to do that. They told me I had been put on the no-fly list and my passport was flagged," the man said. The last federal quarantine order was issued in 1963, to isolate a patient with smallpox, according to the CDC. Tuberculosis is a bacterial infection that usually attacks the lungs. It is spread through the air and can lead to symptoms such as chest pain and coughing up blood. There were an estimated 1.6 million deaths from TB in 2005, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). The infected man travelled from Atlanta to Paris on 12 May on Air France flight 385. He returned to the North America on CSA flight 104 from Prague to Montreal on 24 May and continued his journey by car. CDC officials said the man was potentially infectious during this period and are recommending that crew members and passengers on board the same flights seek medical attention. "We want to make sure that we have done everything we possibly can to identify people who could be at risk," said Dr Gerberding. TB is rare in the US. Last year there were 13,767 recorded cases or 4.6 cases per 100,000 Americans. About 1.2% of cases in the US are "multidrug-resistant", and can withstand antibiotics commonly used to treat the illness, according to CDC statistics. The "extensively drug-resistant" TB is more dangerous. Medical treatment can cost $500,000 (£250,000) or more, CDC officials say. in TB flight infection warning 29 May 07 | Americas urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6707463.stm | Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' 31 May 2007, 11:53 GMT 12:53 UK NHS bug 'underestimated' C difficile rates have been on the rise Thousands of cases of the hospital bug Clostridium difficile have not been reported in recent years, data shows. Hospitals have been required to submit C. difficile rates since 2004 - but only for over 65s until April this year when all patients have been included. Data from 171 NHS trusts in England - over 90% of the total - showed there has been an extra 26,000 cases on top of the 176,450 infections reported. Tory MP Grant Shapps, who compiled the figures, said they were "shocking". C. difficile is a bacterium found in the gut of up to 3% of healthy adults and 66% of infants, although it rarely causes problems Certain antibiotics can disturb the normal balance, allowing the bug to thrive and causing severe diarrhoea and in some cases severe inflammation of the bowel which can be life threatening Quick guide: Hospital bugs He asked all hospital trusts in England for their C. difficile statistics - most have the data for all patients but only publish the over 65s under the government's surveillance scheme. He said: "This investigation reveals that the number of C. difficile cases has been dramatically underestimated with the government simply ignoring anyone who contracts the infection, but happens to be under the age of 65." And he added; "It is an absolute scandal that I had to go to these lengths to get the true figures revealed." C difficile is linked to twice as many deaths as MRSA, and, unlike the so-called superbug, C difficile infection rates are still on the rise. 'No room for complacency' The number of cases in 2006 rose by 8% on the previous year to 55,000 infections. A spokesman for the Department of Health said: "There is no room for complacency. "We are clear - one avoidable infection is one too many and we are determined to ensure that the NHS has in place good hygiene and clinical procedures "We have recognised that C. difficile is a growing problem - which is why, along with our action programme to tackle all infections, we have a number of specific interventions. "We have improved the surveillance system to provide better local data, and local trusts have agreed local targets to significantly reduce C. difficile infections." and information to help you get more from the NHS 26 Apr over deadly hospital bugs 30 Jan superbug claims may surge 30 Nov 06 | Health Taking on the hospital superbug 09 Feb 06 | Health 'Hit squads' to help tackle MRSA 06 Feb 06 | Health MRSA deaths up by nearly quarter 23 Feb 06 | Health drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm | Pregnancy timeline 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Week at a Glance
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6703467.stm | 'Opt out' HIV testing launched GMT 12:46 UK out' HIV testing launched HIV tests should be offered routinely Countries with HIV epidemics should carry out HIV tests on everyone attending health centres unless they 'opt out', say experts Issuing new guidance, the World Health Organisation said 200 million people could benefit from the policy. Currently 80% of people infected with HIV in areas such as sub-Saharan Africa do not know they have it. However, no test should be done against a person's wishes or without their knowledge, the guidelines stress. Forcing them to carry out HIV tests insults their intelligence in such a way that they are no different from animals Omara Daniel Allan, Kampala Send us your comments Dr Kevin De Cock, director of WHO HIV/Aids said too many opportunities to diagnose the infection were being missed. Industrialised countries also need to take note of the guidance which recommends offering a test to everyone who presents with symptoms suggestive of HIV and people in high-risk groups, such as those attending sexual health clinics. Recent surveys in sub-Saharan Africa showed on average just 12% of men and 10% of women have been tested for HIV and received their test results. Until now, testing was only done if a person requested it. But in countries with HIV epidemic that affects the whole population, all patients attending all health facilities should now be offered testing, whether or not the patient has symptoms of HIV disease and regardless of the patient's reason for attending the health centre. The HIV test would be carried out unless the patient declines. Tests in low income countries cost up to $2 US dollars. People must be fully informed before testing and receive counselling afterwards, the guidance states. And patients should receive support to avoid potential negative consequences of knowing and disclosing their HIV status, such as discrimination or violence. Access to antiretroviral therapy is not a pre-requisite to testing but countries must have a treatment plan in place, which includes an intention to introduce the drugs when possible. "Globally the number of people living with HIV who are aware of their infection status is quite low - 20% in low and middle income countries" said Dr De Cock. "Even in the industrialised world the situation is far from satisfactory." "This is a significant shift but it builds on current recommendations and this document was based on lengthy consultation." Dr Paul De Lay, director of monitoring and evaluation at UNAids said it had been estimated that 200 million people worldwide could be offered tests which meant they had access to prevention advice and treatment if the were infected. "If we are going to get ahead of this epidemic, rapidly scaled up HIV treatment and prevention efforts are critical - and increased uptake of HIV testing will be fundamental to making this a reality," he said. "At the same time, and in all cases of HIV testing and counselling, the three Cs - that is consent, confidentiality and counselling - must be respected." Routinely offered HIV testing and counselling has already been implemented in a range of clinical settings in several countries, including Botswana, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda and Zambia. Some countries, such as Canada, Thailand, UK and the US offer tests in high-risk settings. Lisa Power, of the UK HIV charity Terrence Higgins Trust, said: "We fully support these recommendations. "In the UK, this means that sexual health clinics and health services for those at particular risk of HIV should be recommending HIV testing - something which we've been advocating for some time. "A third of people with HIV don't know they have it and many of them may never have considered testing. We need this proactive approach to help these people as early as possible." Deborah Jack, chief executive of the National AIDS Trust, said: "Healthcare workers, particularly in primary care, also need training so that they can identify symptoms of HIV as early as possible." HIV tests be compulsory? 30 May 07 | Have Your Say WHO agrees HIV circumcision plan 28 Mar HIV vaccine trial launch 08 Feb epidemic 'is getting worse' 21 Nov 06 | Health Ban on home HIV tests 'outdated' 19 Jan for widespread HIV testing 15 Aug 06 | Health Call for HIV testing in casualty 27 May 07 | UK drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6705215.stm | Food chemical 'may boost memory' GMT 00:03 UK chemical 'may boost memory' Epicatechin is found in grapes A chemical found in chocolate, tea, grapes and blueberries can improve the memory of mice, research suggests. The Salk Institute study could lead to further tests to see if epicatechin also works on humans. The study, published in the Journal of Neuroscience, suggests it improves blood flow in the brain - especially in combination with extra exercise. However, nutritionists warn chocolate is high in fat and sugar, which may undo any potential benefits. We'd obviously recommend a diet rich in fruit and vegetables, with perhaps a small amount of chocolate - but eating five bars a day is likely to just make you fatter, without any noticeable improvement in memory Spokesman, British Nutrition Foundation This is not the first study to find a link between 'flavanol' chemicals in certain foods and health benefits - other studies claim that cardiovascular health can be improved by including them in the diet. The researchers, led by Dr Henriette van Praag, working with chocolate firm Mars, compared mice fed a typical diet with those fed a diet supplemented with epicatechin. Half the mice in each group were allowed to run on a wheel for two hours each day and then, a month later, were trained to find a platform hidden in a pool of water. Those that both exercised and ate the epicatechin diet remembered the location of the platform longer than the other mice. The epicatechin-fed mice who did not exercise also showed enhanced memory, but to a lesser degree. The mice on the special diet appeared to have greater blood vessel growth in certain parts of their brain, alongside more mature brain nerve cells. Chocolate is another source Dr van Praag said: "A logical next step will be to study the effects of epicatechin on memory and brain blood flow in aged animals - and then humans, combined with mild exercise." Dr Mark Mattson, from the US National Institute on Ageing, said: "This is an important advance because it identifies a single natural chemical with memory-enhancing effects, suggesting it may be possible to optimise brain function by combining exercise and dietary supplementation." However, a spokesman for the British Nutrition Foundation said that while there was some evidence that diets rich in flavanols could be beneficial in humans, often when flavanols such as epicatechin were given on their own, no benefits could be spotted. She added: "We'd obviously recommend a diet rich in fruit and vegetables, with perhaps a small amount of chocolate - but eating five bars a day is likely to just make you fatter, without any noticeable improvement in memory." nutrient for 'lethal ills' 11 Mar 'better than kissing' 16 Apr trial on heart patients 10 Apr 06 | Health drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6707175.stm | Expert says IVF couples exploited 31 May 2007, 10:53 GMT 11:53 UK says IVF couples exploited Lord Winston says IVF couples are being charged over the odds The IVF industry is exploiting UK couples, charging them over the odds for treatment, fertility expert Lord Robert Winston said on Wednesday. Speaking at the Hay Literary Festival in Wales, the Imperial College London professor also criticised the fertility watchdog the HFEA on its duty of care. The HFEA maintained it policed clinics and provided information to patients. One private IVF clinic said it was impossible to generalise about the private sector. It is very easy to exploit people by the fact that they're desperate and you've got the technology which they want Lord Winston said couples were being overcharged for fertility treatments, and some were being offered embryo screening tests for which there was no clinical justification. He criticised doctors in the UK for overpriced treatments, and said it was "rather depressing" to consider that some IVF treatments in London cost 10 times the fees charged in Melbourne, Australia. There are 85 licensed fertility clinics in the UK, and treatments at private clinics cost between £4,000 and £8,000 per cycle. According to the latest figures, more than 30,000 patients underwent IVF in 2004, and the HFEA estimates around 80% of treatments are performed privately. Lord Winston said: "One of the major problems facing us in healthcare is that IVF has become a massive commercial industry. "It's very easy to exploit people by the fact that they're desperate and you've got the technology which they want, which may not work." He said clinicians and scientists doing the work did not want to explore the implications of treatments and were not engaging with the public. But Dr Rajat Goswamy, medical director of the Harley Street Fertility Centre, said it was impossible to generalise about the private sector, and that many clinics were not offering some of the more controversial treatments available. He said the costs of IVF treatments in London had to be high to cover staffing and rental costs. Lord Winston also criticised the HFEA, saying it had done a "consistently bad job" at providing information to couples and limiting the availability of unscientific treatments. The HFEA said it did hold clinics accountable to ensure the safety and appropriateness of IVF treatments. A spokeswoman said: "We consider patient information to be extremely important, and so produce a wide range of information for patients." She said the HFEA also scrutinised the quality of information given to patients by clinics, but that it did not have a role in regulating treatments other than IVF procedures offered by clinics. May denies 'IVF cut' claims 01 Apr 07 | UK NHS fertility care is 'a lottery' 02 Mar table of IVF clinics 10 Jan Guide - Fertility drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6704541.stm | South Asia | India alarm over HIV in new areas GMT 17:40 UK alarm over HIV in new areas India has more HIV infections than any other country, the UN says India health officials are alarmed by the growing numbers of pregnant women infected with HIV/Aids in the key states of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar. The northern states are among India's most backward, with huge populations but poor literacy and health services. Officials say workers who migrate to cities in search of work bring the infection back to the states with them. They say unless the state governments get serious about tackling the disease, there could be an Aids epidemic. According to UN estimates, India has the highest number of HIV infections with 5.7 million people carrying the virus. The head of India's government-run National Aids Control Organisation (Naco), Sujatha Rao, told the BBC that urgent measures were needed in UP and Bihar to "stem the epidemic". There is a shift from urban to rural and from high risk to low risk categories Uttar Pradesh Aids Control Authority She was speaking after a countrywide survey to collect India's latest HIV/Aids figures. Full results of the annual Aids survey will be made public in early June. Ms Rao said the districts of Etawah, Banda and Lalitpur in UP had been found to have more than 1% of pregnant mothers infected with the virus. A high number of pregnant woman infected with HIV had also been identified in the districts of Lakhiserai and Saharsa of Bihar. Ms Rao says she is concerned over the slow response of the two state governments in dealing with the problem. The two state governments have "not realised" the seriousness of the problem but "we remain hopeful", she says. Ms Rao says the situation in UP and Bihar compares with that in the southern state of Tamil Nadu 10 years ago. Tamil Nadu is another high prevalence state as far as HIV infections are concerned, but what makes matters far more serious in the two northern states is their poor healthcare system. To compound matters, Ms Rao says, most cases of HIV/Aids infection in UP and Bihar go unreported because of the social stigma attached to the disease. The Naco chief's concern is shared by representatives of Aids control programmes in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which together have a population of more than 280 million people. Officials say the virus is spreading to low-risk groups Health officials say the main cause of the growing incidence of HIV/Aids is migrant labour. RP Mathur of the Uttar Pradesh Aids Control Authority says around 60% of HIV cases reported come from the socially and economically backward eastern part of the state. "There is a shift from the urban to rural and from high-risk to low-risk categories" in the last few years, he says. Mr Mathur says it is estimated that UP has more than half a million HIV positive cases, but only 20,000 of them have been reported, due to the stigma attached to the disease. Bihar Aids Control Authority representative Vishal Singh says most of the infections have been detected in people who had migrated to work in places outside the state. "They get infected in industrial cities like Surat [in Gujarat] and return home to Bihar and have unprotected sex with their wives. This has to be controlled," he says. Mr Singh says given the poor economic situation in Bihar, it is important that more developed states like Gujarat take steps to educate migrants labourers working there. Rashmi Sharma of the Population Foundation of India, a non-government organisation involved in spreading awareness about HIV/Aids, says migrant labourers cannot solely be blamed. "A local community will have to take the blame for its inability to control the problem," she says. "The problem lies within the community and they have to be involved in looking for a solution." UP and Bihar are two of India's states which rank lowest on the human development index - they have high levels of illiteracy, unemployment and poor social infrastructure. Officials say it is only the wide gap between the estimated and reported cases which has kept the two states off the list of high prevalence states Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka in the south, Maharashtra in the west and Manipur and Nagaland in the north-east are considered high HIV prevalence states in India. There has been much debate about whether India does indeed have more people living with HIV than any other country. A study by British journal BMC Medicine last December suggested that methods used to estimate the number of infections in India were flawed and that the true figure could be about 40% of the estimated numbers. 'afflicting global workforce' India the HIV 'global epicentre' Gates gives $287m for research HIV infections 'may have peaked' Children missing out on HIV drugs HIV origin 'found in wild chimps' HIV-positive children face a bleak future in Russia, the BBC's Emma Simpson finds 'Why I abstain from sex' 'I am not afraid of Aids' Hope amid Malawi's Aids crisis 'Bug chasers': Fantasy or fact? 'My life with HIV' Timeline: 25 years of HIV/Aids The biology of Aids What could combat Aids? Indian Ministry of Health and Family Welfare National Aids Control Organisation, India SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6707949.stm | Contact lens solution is recalled 31 May 2007, 12:32 GMT 13:32 UK lens solution is recalled Contact lenses are cleaned and stored in lens solutions A contact lens solution is being recalled in the UK because of concerns that it could cause eye infections. Complete Moisture Plus was pulled from sale in the US six days ago following a warning from the US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention. US government officials linked the solution to acanthamoeba keratitis (AK), a painful eye infection. Advanced Medical Optics (AMO) which makes the solution, has issued the recall as a "precautionary measure". AMO said in a statement: "The recall is being initiated because of concerns over eye infections from acanthamoeba, a naturally occurring water-borne organism which can contribute to serious corneal infections." The recall is not related to contamination and no other AMO products are affected, the firm added. The company is asking contact lens wearers who begin suffering eye pain, redness, blurred vision or sensitivity to light to seek medical attention. There are reports of 138 cases of eye infections in the US which are being investigated. But AMO said it had not received any reports of UK users suffering eye problems. Those who swim or shower while wearing contact lenses, use tap water to clean their lenses or come into contact with contaminated water are most are most prone to getting AK, the company said. The eye infection can lead to permanent vision loss or blindness in rare cases. eye contact lens maker 25 May 07 | Business Coping with a company disaster 15 May 07 | Business How effective are product recalls? 20 Feb 07 | Magazine US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Increase in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm | Cancer: The facts 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6703451.stm | Hereford/Worcs | Hamster bite puts man in hospital GMT 08:49 UK bite puts man in hospital A man was taken to hospital after suffering a severe allergic reaction when he was bitten by a hamster. The 50-year-old was trying to retrieve his pet from under the floorboards of his home near Evesham, Worcestershire, when the rodent attacked. It had escaped after his seven-year-old daughter had accidentally let it out of its cage on Monday night. Paramedics said the man survived largely through giving himself anti-allergy drugs before they arrived. He had suffered severe breathing difficulties and was in a semi-conscious state when the ambulance arrived at his home. They gave him further medication and took him to Alexandra Hospital, in Redditch. An ambulance service spokesman said: "If you have been identified as someone who can have severe reactions it is vital that you and your family know what to do. "The man's actions in administering drugs to himself may well have played an important part in his recovery." Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester Boy is treated with hamster cells 12 Apr 07 | West Yorkshire Trapped hamster saved by vacuum 14 Mar 07 | Staffordshire Hamsters thrown out with rubbish 05 Feb 07 | Sussex Hideaway hamster finds new home 26 Sep 06 | Devon Hamster survives giant shredder 02 Jun 06 | North East Wales West Midlands Ambulance Service injury unit to have doctor Duo fined for dating website joke Police introduce new head cameras Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6702295.stm | Tories 'to carry on Blair reform' GMT 21:14 UK 'to carry on Blair reform' Mr Osborne says Labour is abandoning the centre ground The Conservatives are best placed to carry on Tony Blair's public service reforms, the shadow chancellor says. George Osborne claimed Gordon Brown, the next prime minister, had "abandoned the centre ground of public service reform to the Conservative Party". The Tories would therefore have "a great opportunity to improve life for the many, not the few", he added. But at a hustings event later Mr Brown said there would be "no retreat" from the centre ground of British politics. Mr Blair has called for personalised services which allow people to choose schools and hospitals. Mr Osborne told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that Mr Blair's ideas on choice were right, but said he had been wrong to impose them from Whitehall. He said: "I'm saying work with the public service professionals, work with teachers, work with doctors to give them much greater power over their local services and to give the users of these services... the choice that is the driver of improvement in every other walk of life and can be the driver of improvement in public services. The roadblocks to reform are being put into place In full: Osborne speech "The fact that Gordon Brown has abandoned the centre ground of public service reform to the Conservative Party is a great opportunity for us to improve life... for the many not the few." In a speech later to the Policy Exchange think tank, Mr Osborne said that while the Tories and Mr Blair agreed on "the essentials of the way forward", Mr Brown, due to take over by the end of June, was not part of the "growing consensus". He said the deputy leadership debates had shown that Labour was poised to move to the left, abandoning the centre ground. "The roadblocks to reform are being put into place," he said. But Labour chairwoman Hazel Blears, who is one of six candidates for the deputy leadership, said on Wednesday night she "completely and utterly rejected" Mr Osborne's accusation that the party was "lurching to the left". We are going to stand on our principles and our beliefs and stand firmly in the centre ground of British politics "It is the Labour party that is in touch with the ambitions of people in this country," she said. And Mr Brown told people at the hustings event in Leicester there would be "no retreat" to "soft options" or the failed policies of the past. "That is what the Conservative Party did and it lost them three elections," he said. "We are going to stand on our principles and our beliefs and stand firmly in the centre ground of British politics." The solution which would provide immediate, quality health care at no large cost to the patient at the point of treatment is compulsory insurance The Tories say public services should become less "top-down", with more decisions made locally. Mr Osborne said they would not limit the number of academies that could be created, they would devolve healthcare budgets to GPs and patients and would offer disabled people a personalised budget to control how the money was spent. His speech came as the party sought to end the row over grammar schools. And while Mr Osborne rejected "alternative funding mechanisms like social insurance", Conservative MP Peter Bone wrote an article on his website calling for a system of private health insurance to be brought in. Mr Bone said that radical reform of the NHS was needed, and "the solution which would provide immediate, quality health care at no large cost to the patient at the point of treatment is compulsory insurance". full: George Osborne speech 30 May 07 | Politics Who is the real heir to Blair? 30 May 07 | Politics Brown pledges academy support 15 May 07 | Education How Blair shaped public services 10 May 07 | Politics Blair tackles NHS critics head-on 30 Apr for 'personalised' services 19 Mar 07 | Politics Tories can save NHS, says Cameron 18 Mar 07 | Politics Reform getting faster, says Blair 24 Jan 07 | Politics issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6705209.stm | Women warned on iron 'overdose' GMT 00:31 UK warned on iron 'overdose' Many woman take multivitamins in pregnancy Healthy pregnant women should think twice before taking iron supplements, say researchers who have linked high doses to blood pressure problems. Iron is often given to combat anaemia in pregnancy, but many women take extra iron, on its own or in a multivitamin. The Iranian university study, published in the British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, gave some women a 30mg daily dose as part of its research. UK experts say that this amount should only be taken on GP advice. The UK Food Standards Agency says that lower doses in UK multivitamins are unlikely to harm women. Anaemia is often associated with low birth weight and preterm births, but this does not mean that women should be popping iron pills, or any vitamin pills indiscriminately Professor Philip Steer, editor, British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology Anaemia is a common condition in pregnant women, which, if left unchecked, can contribute to premature births and low birthweight babies. It is caused by a lack of red blood cells, and taking iron on prescription helps the body produce more. The researchers from Tarbiat Modarres University wanted to check the effect of iron supplements on women whose red blood cell level was normal. They gave 370 women a 150mg dose of ferrous sulphate, which equates to approximately 30mg of actual iron, every day throughout their pregnancy. A similar number of women were given a "placebo" dummy pill containing no iron. The number of women with diagnosed high blood pressure - a disorder which can also cause problems for mother and baby - was higher in the women given the iron pills than in the other group. Many countries still offer iron pills as a routine measure for all pregnant women, and lead researcher Professor Saedeh Ziaei said: "Our trial suggests that administering it even may have some disadvantages in non-anaemic women." Professor Philip Steer, the editor of the BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, said: "Anaemia is often associated with low birth weight and preterm births, but this does not mean that women should be popping iron pills, or any vitamin pills indiscriminately, to prevent poor pregnancy outcomes." We consider that the supplements available in this country are safe, and it is up to the individual woman to choose A spokesman for the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists said that women should avoid taking extra iron unless recommended by their doctor or midwife. Routine iron supplementation is not practised in the UK, but blood is tested for signs of anaemia more than once during pregnancy as a matter of course. However, many healthy pregnant women take once-a-day multivitamin pills that contain smaller doses of iron - normally around 100% of the recommended dose of 15mg. Official bodies such as the Food Standards Agency recommend that pregnant women take extra vitamins such as folic acid and vitamin D, but don't encourage any other vitamin supplementation, saying that a balanced healthy diet provides all the vitamins needed. However, they said that taking 17mg or less a day - the amount UK multivitamin brands contain - was 'unlikely to be harmful'. A spokesman for the baby charity Tommy's also stressed the importance of a healthy diet, but added that women were free to take supplements if they chose. "We consider that the supplements available in this country are safe, and it is up to the individual woman to choose." May women 'oily fish alert' 12 Oct 06 | Health Anaemia 'can damage baby bonding' 05 Apr 05 | Health Vit D linked to baby birth weight 25 Apr 06 | Health Iron absorption mystery 'solved' 10 Sep 05 | Health BJOG: An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6706743.stm | Cardinal sounds abortion warning 31 May 2007, 15:42 GMT 16:42 UK sounds abortion warning The cardinal has been accused of using inflammatory words Catholic politicians who defend abortion should not expect to remain full church members, Scotland's most senior Roman Catholic has warned. In a sermon marking 40 years since the Abortion Act, Cardinal Keith O'Brien said pro-abortion MPs should consider their stance on receiving Communion. He said the abortion rate north of the border was equivalent to "two Dunblane massacres a day". The cardinal's opponents have accused him of using inflammatory language. We're told by statisticians that the equivalent of a classroom of children every day are being aborted in their mothers' womb Send us your comments Profile: 'Cardinal of Controversy' They said it was up to elected officials to decide such ethical issues without facing threats from church leaders. Abortion remains a reserved issue, legislated over by politicians at Westminster. Speaking at St Mary's Cathedral in Edinburgh, the cardinal urged decision-makers to stop supporting what he labelled an "unspeakable crime". And he called on voters to reject candidates who defend a "social evil". Cardinal O'Brien said: "We are killing - in our country - the equivalent of a classroom of kids every single day. "Can you imagine that? Two Dunblane massacres a day in our country going on and on. And when's it going to stop? "I can't change the teachings of Jesus Christ. I can't change the 10 Commandments. That's what I'm ordained to teach and to preach: 'Thou shalt not kill."' BBC religious affairs correspondent, Robert Pigott, said Cardinal O'Brien has been frustrated by what he sees as the marginalisation of Christian values in public affairs. He has embarked on his boldest intervention yet in political life, our correspondent said. His sermon attacked the 1967 act, describing the roughly seven million abortions in Britain since then as an "unspeakable crime" and the "wanton killing of innocents". What Cardinal O'Brien has done is bring it up in a manner that makes people stop and listen Editor, Scottish Catholic Observer The cardinal told the BBC: "We're told by statisticians that the equivalent of a classroom of children every day are being aborted in their mothers' womb - basically murdered in their mothers' womb." However, his intervention has angered some politicians. Jeremy Purvis, a Liberal Democrat member of the Scottish Parliament, said the cardinal was using "inflammatory" language. He said: "It is not right that we would be seen to be put under pressure, or indeed some members threatened, by a religious leader on what is a very sensitive issue." A Liberal Democrat spokesman in Westminster said abortion was a matter for the individual conscience and that Mr Purvis was giving his own personal view as a liberal politician. That view was echoed by the main parties in Scotland. Minister for public health, Shona Robison, said that the Scottish government was committed to improving Scotland's sexual health and reducing the number of unintended pregnancies through Respect and Responsibility, the national sexual health strategy. SNP MSP Michael Matheson said the Catholic Church would be "hypocritical" if it didn't speak out against abortion and those who supported it. He added: "I think it is perfectly reasonable for the Catholic leader in Scotland to effectively assert Catholic social teaching that is opposed to abortion. "If you had a situation where politicians who were voting in favour of abortion were then expected to be able to participate fully within a Catholic Mass then the church itself would be derelicting its responsibility to uphold its own teachings." Harry Conroy, editor of the Scottish Catholic Observer, said the paper fully supported Cardinal O'Brien's stance on abortion. Mr Conroy denied that the cardinal had used extreme language. "What Cardinal O'Brien has done is bring it up in a manner that makes people stop and listen," he said. Ann Furedi, chief executive of the British Pregnancy Advisory Service, said: "Abortion is a safe, legal and medically legitimate procedure, essential in safeguarding women's reproductive health. "Women should be able to make their own choices about their bodies and their future. The cardinal has every right to hold his views. He obviously doesn't have to have an abortion, or provide one." AND AUDIO NEWS The Cardinal explains why he is intervening in politics Increase in abortions in Scotland 29 May 07 | Scotland Cardinal makes environment plea 08 Apr 07 | Scotland Scottish Catholic Media Office appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' OAP billed for home's demolition Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:05 GMT 17:05 UK Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS A non-nicotine drug specifically designed to help smokers quit is approved for use on the NHS. 'Half' unaware of smoke ban date Quit smoking drug available in UK Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Thousands of cases of the hospital bug Clostridium difficile have not been reported in recent years, data shows. Women warned on iron 'overdose' Healthy pregnant women who take iron supplements may increase blood pressure risks, a study claims. Contact lens solution is recalled Expert says IVF couples exploited Food chemical 'memory boost' Cardinal sounds abortion warning Bush pledges funds to fight Aids US steps up precautions over TB ALSO IN THE NEWS Test can spot those who don't keep their minds on the job VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS US schools issue 'fat reports' The hazards of getting medical supplies to the people of Iraq Can living under the flightpath damage your health? China deploys death penalty in battle against fake drugs Pesticides 'up Parkinson's risk' EU-wide organ donor card plan 'Opt out' HIV testing launched India alarm over HIV spread EU asks industry to fight obesity Hamster bite puts man in hospital Tories 'to carry on Blair reform' Drug cost reforms 'may cost NHS' Heart disease and stroke X-ray technology in the 21st century Scientists find bird flu antibody Alcohol health warnings by 2008 How X-ray technology is revolutionising patient care A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES What should you eat and drink during pregnancy? ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6702107.stm | Drug cost reforms 'may cost NHS' GMT 08:29 UK cost reforms 'may cost NHS' The OFT spent 18 months looking at drugs pricing Reforms of the drugs pricing system may cost the NHS money, an economist says. The Office of Fair Trading has proposed the cost of drugs to the NHS should be based on health impact, rather than the cost to manufacturers as happens now. The OFT had estimated the move could save the NHS £500m from its £7bn bill, the Health Economics journal reported. York University expert Professor Karl Claxton said the plan was well-founded but may cost the NHS more and said industry should cover any extra costs. OFT officials spent 18 months studying the drugs market before proposing a value-based pricing system , which would allow companies to charge higher prices for those drugs that delivered the greatest health benefits. Such a radical shake-up is bound to worry people within the industry, but most fears are unfounded Professor Karl Claxton, of York University At the moment, prices are determined by the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme, which allows companies to set their own prices within broad profit constraints. The OFT suggested a move to value-based pricing could save £500m, although it did not fully establish how cost-effectiveness should be measured. But Professor Claxton said: "Under the new scheme, the NHS will only take on technologies if they are cost-effective - that means the health benefits of using the technology must be greater than health displaced elsewhere in the NHS.. "This will provide a powerful incentive for companies to concentrate on cost-effective delivery when they develop new therapies." But he said such an approach could actually lead to an increase in the drugs bill as companies try to produce treatments they get more money for. Professor Claxton added a system of safeguards should be built into the system whereby industry compensates the NHS if the drugs bill goes over an agreed limit, while the health service hands money back if revenue drops below a set amount. The OFT declined to comment on the claims, but the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry said they were logical. A spokeswoman said: "We are not opposed to the system that is being proposed, it is just how it works in practice. "Current measures of cost-effectiveness do not take into account the impact of things such as a benefit of a person returning to work or not needing social care. "We are keen to see how the government responds to this." The government is expected to respond formally to the proposed value-based pricing system in the coming weeks. But a spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "The government is looking carefully at how to maintain and accelerate the flow of life saving, effective drugs on to the market, at a fair price for the NHS, that also rewards the innovation of pharmaceutical companies. "We have been listening carefully to a wide range of views and will publish our response later in the year." and contacts on NHS healthcare to help you take action NHS 'pays too much to drug firms' 20 Feb 07 | Business Probe into cap on drugs profits 17 Sep 05 | Health NHS medicine cost control urged 28 Jul 05 | Scotland Office of Fair Trading drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6701269.stm | Pesticides 'up Parkinson's risk' 29 May 2007, 23:18 GMT 00:18 UK 'up Parkinson's risk' Some pesticides may be bad for human health Exposure to pesticides could lead to an increased risk of contracting Parkinson's disease, a study has found. Researchers discovered that high levels of exposure increased the risk by 39%, while even low levels raised it by 9%. However, the Aberdeen University researchers stressed that the overall risk of developing the disease remained small. In the UK, one person in 500 develops the incurable degenerative brain disease, or a similar illness. This doesn't prove that pesticides cause Parkinson's Disease - but does add to the weight of evidence of an association Dr Finlay Dick, Aberdeen University Symptoms often include unsteadiness and tremor in the hands or arms, often alongside difficulties with speech or movement. Other studies have pointed strongly towards exposure to pesticides being involved in some cases, with agricultural workers showing higher rates of the illness. The Aberdeen study, reported in the journal Occupational and Environmental Medicine, involved 959 cases of parkinsonism, a term used to describe people with diagnoses of Parkinson's Disease, and other, similar conditions. They all answered questioned about their lifetime occupational and recreational exposure to a variety of chemicals, including solvents, pesticides, iron, copper and manganese. Some have suggested that the head injuries involved in boxing could be linked to Parkinson's, so the patients were also asked whether they had ever been knocked unconscious. The study included more general questions about family health history and tobacco use. All the replies were then compared to those from a group of people of similar age and sex who had not been diagnosed with Parkinson's. They revealed that while having a family history of Parkinson's was the clearest risk factor for developing the disease, exposure to pesticides also gave a clear increase. People who had been knocked out once were 35% more at risk, while being knocked out on more than one occasion appeared to increase the risk by two-and-a-half times. However, the researchers acknowledged that it was impossible to tell from the results whether the patients had been knocked out after falling as a result of their Parkinson's. Dr Finlay Dick, the lead researcher, said: "What we have shown in the study is that with increasing risk to exposure to pesticides, the risk of Parkinson's Disease increases. "This doesn't prove that pesticides cause Parkinson's Disease - but does add to the weight of evidence of an association." A spokesman for the Parkinson's Disease Society echoed this: "The important finding from this study is confirmation that Parkinson's is not caused by any one factor, but instead a combination of genetic susceptibility and environmental factors." Georgina Downs, from the UK Pesticides Campaign, which represents people in rural communities, said: "Considering many pesticides are neurotoxic, then it isn't surprising that study after study has found associations with various chronic neurological and neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's. "This is highly significant in relation to the long-term exposure of rural residents and communities living near sprayed fields." in link to Parkinson's 25 May 05 | Scotland 'Parkinson's was not the end for me' 20 Apr Mar 03 | Medical notes Occupational and Environmental Medicine drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6706085.stm | Americas | Bush pledges funds to fight Aids GMT 19:46 UK pledges funds to fight Aids Sub-Saharan Africa still sees the most cases of HIV/Aids President George W Bush has asked the US Congress to set aside $30bn (£15bn) over five years for the global fight against HIV/Aids. He said the sum would double the current US commitment and provide treatment for 2.5 million people. Mr Bush said the funding would also be aimed at preventing more than 12 million new infections. The president said his wife Laura would visit Africa next month as part of the US campaign against Aids. "When I took office, an HIV diagnosis in Africa's poorest communities was usually a death sentence," Mr Bush said. HIV/Aids around the world "Once again, the generosity of the American people is one of the great untold stories of our time." In 2003, the US Government approved a $15bn package over five years to fight the spread of Aids. The US Congress stipulated that a proportion of those funds must be spent on encouraging abstinence-until-marriage programmes. United Nations agencies say about 40 million people worldwide are infected with Aids or HIV. Almost three-quarters of deaths from Aids last year occurred in sub-Saharan Africa, and two-thirds of those living with HIV are found there. The number living with the virus has increased everywhere, with the most striking increases in East Asia and Central Asia/Eastern Europe. On Wednesday the World Health Organization urged affected countries to carry out HIV tests on everyone attending health centres unless they "opt out". It said 200 million people could benefit from the policy. Currently 80% of people infected with HIV in areas such as sub-Saharan Africa do not know they have it. out' HIV testing launched 30 May agrees HIV circumcision plan 28 Mar HIV vaccine trial launch 08 Feb epidemic 'is getting worse' 21 Nov 06 | Health Call for widespread HIV testing 15 Aug 06 | Health urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6703701.stm | EU-wide organ donor card proposed GMT 10:45 UK organ donor card proposed Organs for transplant are in short supply The EU could soon introduce an organ donor card covering all member states. The idea has been proposed by EU Health Commissioner Markos Kyprianou, as a way to increase the number of organs available for transplant operations. A survey showed most Europeans support using donor cards - but only 12% actually carry one. Around 40,000 patients are on EU waiting lists for a transplant, and it is thought ten people a day die waiting in vain for a donor organ. The Commission's strategy paper suggests guidelines are drawn up to control the supply of surplus organs to countries in need. It also proposes creating organ transplant coordinators in hospitals and making better use of living donors. Mr Kyprianou said: "Organ donations save lives. A European organ donor card, and common EU standards on the quality and safety of organ donations and transplants, could secure a sufficient and safe supply or organs." An opinion poll carried out for the European Commission in late 2006 and published on Wednesday said 81% of EU citizens "support the use of organ donor cards". It also found that 56% of Europeans are willing to donate one of their organs after they die. Support for the idea of donating an organ was highest in Sweden (81%), and lowest in Romania (27%). The Netherlands, Sweden and Ireland had the highest take-up of donor cards. However, use of donor cards was extremely limited in member states which have joined the EU since 2004. Dutch television will air a reality show this week in which a dying woman chooses a recipient for her kidneys. The EU executive and the Dutch government said the show was unethical. However, the maker, BNN argued the show highlights the shortage of organ donors. organ donor card proposed EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules A think tank argues against channelling aid through the EU Sarkozy excites and worries EU EU fails to excite Bulgarians Mark Mardell on the US plan to bring its missile shield to Europe THE UK AND EUROPE UK beach hygiene hailed in report Migrants 'want to settle in UK' A timeline of the EU Q&A: EU constitution's future drug approved on NHS Deadly NHS bug 'underestimated' Women warned on iron 'overdose' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/leicestershire/6718439.stm | Leicestershire | Smokers face surgery quit demand 4 June 2007, 11:14 GMT 12:14 UK face surgery quit demand Patients in part of Leicestershire will be asked to give up smoking before they go in for an operation. Leicestershire City NHS Primary Care Trust said quitting a month before surgery will mean improved recovery times and a fewer complications. Managers insisted this would not mean a ban on smokers and the final decision to operate would rest with clinicians. The policy, which would not cover emergency cases, will go out for consultation until later in the year. Routine, elective surgery, such as hip replacements and hysterectomies, would be covered if the rule gets the final go ahead. A spokesman for the trust said: "It is acknowledged that those who do not smoke require fewer bed days after surgery and suffer fewer lung and heart problems. "Any moves in this direction would be made with the intention of improving the health of patients coming in for treatment." Hospitals in Leicester introduced a smoking ban on all property and grounds in July 2006 curbs: The global picture 01 Jun 07 | World Heart ops data available online 31 May adopt smoke-free policy 04 Jul 06 | Leicestershire Hospitals seek views on standards 16 Apr 07 | Leicestershire Leicester City Primary Care Trust hurts finger in needle box Schools get new metal detectors Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6717947.stm | MP calls for abortion counselling 4 June 2007, 15:08 GMT 16:08 UK calls for abortion counselling Both sides are expected to campaign for changes to the 1967 law A new bid to alter current abortion laws is to be made in Parliament - the third such attempt in eight months. Ann Winterton's bill would require women to be counselled about possible ill-effects, then to wait a week to consider them before going ahead. The Conservative MP will argue that abortion can pose a risk to women's long term mental health. But pro-choice groups say it is the latest in a "concerted campaign" in Parliament to restrict women's rights. Mrs Winterton, who is vice-chair of the all-party parliamentary pro-life group, will argue that many women who have abortions suffer long-term mental health problems. She wants compulsory counselling - rather than the voluntary counselling offered currently - and a seven-day "cooling off" period, to allow time for second thoughts. And her Termination of Pregnancy (Counselling and Miscellaneous Provisions) Bill will also include a provision that doctors record whether abortions are being performed on physical or mental grounds. It is a short-sighted, desperate attempt to criminalise abortion But the pro-choice group Abortion Rights, said the bill would force women to receive counselling regardless of their wishes. Abortion Rights director Anne Quesney said the bill showed "no compassion for women or respect for women's ability to make their own abortion decision" and said the time delay would effectively pressurise women to change their minds. "It is a short-sighted, desperate attempt to criminalise abortion. Forty years since abortion was legalised in Britain, it is time to move forward, not back," she added. And the British Pregnancy Advisory Service said delaying abortions went against good medical practice. Chief Executive Ann Furedi said women were already offered counselling and were given information about the effects, adding: "Women don't need Parliament to tell them to think carefully about abortion." But Mrs Winterton won some support from Dr Trevor Stammers, a tutor in general practice at St George's, University of London, who said, over 26 years, he had treated many women suffering from depression relating to abortions. And consultant gynaecologist Dr Robert Balfour said a study of 5,000 women in Finland between 1987 and 2000 showed those who had an abortion were six times more likely to commit suicide than those who gave birth. Mrs Winterton's proposal will be introduced as a Ten Minute Rule Bill on Tuesday - allowing her ten minutes' Commons time to put her case forward. It is the third such bill since October 2006. Cardinal O'Brien was accused of using inflammatory words Nadine Dorries's attempt to cut the time limit for abortions from 24 weeks until 21 weeks was defeated - as was Angela Watkinson's bid to force doctors offering abortion advice to under-16s to inform their parents. Even if Mrs Winterton wins MPs' support, the government only rarely allows a Ten Minute Rule Bill to progress far enough to become law. But they are a useful way of gauging opinion among MPs - and there has been speculation, most recently in Monday's Guardian, that both sides of the debate are gearing up to try to liberalise, or curb, the 1967 Abortion Act, by seeking amendments to the forthcoming Human Tissues and Embryos bill. There are about 190,000 abortions a year in England and Wales, nearly 25% of all pregnancies. All the main parties consider the issue to be an ethical one on which individual MPs should have a free vote. Last week Scotland's most senior Roman Catholic - Cardinal Keith O'Brien - likened the abortion rate in Scotland to "two Dunblane massacres a day" and called on politicians to stop supporting what he called an "unspeakable crime". Jun 06 | UK Cardinal sounds abortion warning 31 May 07 | Scotland Irish teen wins abortion battle 09 May 07 | Europe Late abortions reasons revealed 19 Apr 'crisis' threatens NHS 16 Apr 'right to know' rejected 14 Mar 07 | Politics Abortion time limit cut rejected 31 Oct 06 | Politics in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6713503.stm | Cancer-drug refund scheme backed 3 June 2007, 23:28 GMT 00:28 UK refund scheme backed Velcade has performed well in trials A watchdog has endorsed a new scheme under which a bone marrow-cancer drug's manufacturers would refund the NHS if a patient did not respond to treatment. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence is recommending multiple myeloma patients in Wales and England should get Velcade on the NHS. But it said the NHS should pay for the drug, which costs about £18,000 per patient, only when it worked. The scheme, the first of its kind, was proposed by drugmaker Janssen-Cilag. It could signal a way for many more treatments to be made available on the NHS, which has been struggling to cope, with limited funds, to provide a raft of expensive new cancer treatments in particular. Life expectancy for multiple myeloma patients is three to five years, but in trials Velcade has been shown to extend that by many months. One trial was so promising, it was halted a year early. Under the terms of the NICE recommendation, patients showing a full or partial response to the drug after a maximum of four cycles of treatment would be kept on it, with the treatment funded by the NHS. However, patients showing minimal or no response would be taken off it - and the costs would be refunded by the manufacturer. The final decision on whether to put the refund scheme into practice rests with the manufacturer and the Department of Health, with final NICE guidance expected in October. A debilitating form of bone marrow cancer It is currently incurable, but treatable A cancer of the plasma cells, found in the bone marrow Incidence increasing faster than any other cancer in Western world - up 30% in 30 years 20,000 myeloma patients in the UK at any one time Andrew Dillon, NICE chief executive, said: "We are aware of the challenge that the NHS faces in ensuring that patients can access expensive, but potentially effective, treatments for life-threatening conditions such as cancer. "If the drug's manufacturer accepts the proposals we are consulting on today, it will mean that when the drug works well the NHS pays but when it doesn't the manufacturer should bear the cost. "All patients suitable for treatment will get the chance to see if the drug works well for them." Initial draft NICE guidance recommended that Velcade should not be made widely available on the NHS. However, the watchdog changed its mind following an appeal by the manufacturer - and its suggestion of a refund scheme. Eric Low, chief executive of the charity Myeloma UK, said: "We welcome the fact that these conversations have resulted in a creative way to ensure that this important cancer drug can be made available to patients. "However, we now need to carefully consider the details of the draft recommendation as we have concerns that it may exclude some patients who could benefit." It would be more practicable to look at setting up a fair pricing system for all drugs Send us your comments Harpal Kumar, chief executive of the charity Cancer Research UK, praised NICE for recommending an "innovative approach". "Pharmaceutical companies with confidence in the new treatments they are developing should not be frightened of schemes aimed at pricing treatments according to their benefit. "Enabling the NHS to get value out of the money it spends on drugs will improve its ability to afford new treatments for cancer patients." AND AUDIO NEWS How Velcade has affected one woman's life High hopes for blood cancer drug 18 May 04 | Health European Medicines Evaluation Agency refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/hi/english/static/in_depth/health/2000/heart_disease/default.stm BBC News | Health | Heart Disease The UK has one of the highest rates of death from heart disease in the world - one British adult dies from the disease every three minutes - and stroke is the country's third biggest killer, claiming 70,000 lives each year. Heart attacks occur when blood flow is blocked, often by a blood clot, while strokes are caused either by blocked or burst blood vessels in the brain. A range of other conditions, including heart failure, when blood is not pumped properly around the body, and congenital heart defects can also cause long term problems, and even death, for sufferers. - The blood returns from the lungs to the upper left chamber of the heart where it is again briefly stored until the atrium fills, before flowing on to the left ventricle. - “Impure” or “blue” blood returning from the atrium enters the heart here, where it is held until the atrium - or chamber - fills up. - This is the most powerful chamber of the heart. It pumps the newly oxygenated blood to the rest of the body through the aorta, or main artery. - This powerful pump propels blood into the pulmonary artery, the tube which carries blood to the lungs, where carbon dioxide in the blood is removed and oxygen added.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6719109.stm | Killer heart condition 'ignored' 4 June 2007, 20:08 GMT 21:08 UK heart condition 'ignored' Robert Lancaster died on a family holiday The government has been accused of ignoring a condition that kills hundreds of young people each year. Sudden Arrhythmic Death Syndrome (SADS) is of approximately 500 people under the age of 35 each year in the UK. The syndrome, which causes the electrical circuitry of the heart to fail, is preventable and treatable. However, the government rejected criticism it was doing nothing to cut SADS deaths. Being cynical nothing much has changed Heart Hospital in London In 2005, the Department for Health issued guidelines on how to tackle sudden cardiac death. But since then said Michael Burgess, the coroner for Surrey who was involved in drawing up the guidance, nothing much has happened. He said: "I think we all hoped and expected that the government would accept the findings of the people around the table. "If we can identify heart disease early on, then our expectation and hope was that there could be a reduction in premature deaths, and equally that would mean an economic benefit to society as a whole. "So the downside might be spending some new money now but the upside would be a much better health for this particular group of people who otherwise might die prematurely." Coroners play a crucial role in preventing sudden cardiac deaths, as 50% of cases are genetic. If a young person dies suddenly, the coroner needs to have the resources to identify the cause of death as sudden arrhythmic failure in order for other family members to be tested and treated if they are found to have the faulty gene. But there is no structure in place to deal with the syndrome properly, said Professor Bill McKenna, a cardiologist at the Heart Hospital in London. "Do we set up specialised clinic? Do we have the funding of expert pathologist to evaluate the hearts? "Do we have a process in hand to ensure that when someone young dies the information is neither buried or cremated? "And do we have a system in place to support maximally the family? I don't think we have any of those things in place, so being cynical nothing much has changed except expectations (since the NSF was published)." The government has rejected that criticism. If you are identified with this condition you must move quickly because its an aggressive condition Cardiac Risk in the Young Health Minister Rosie Winterton said services were being improved. "We now have something like nine specialist centres who do deal with this condition," she said. "We've worked very closely with the Coroners' Society and the Royal College of Pathologists in how to raise awareness of the condition and make sure that if somebody in a family does die of this that other family members are given the support necessary." The Department of Health said in a statement coroners could now seek advice from a recently established network of specialist pathologists - and a blueprint for dealing with inherited cardiac conditions had been published. But others believe that more action is needed now if these deaths are to be avoided. The charity CRY (Cardiac Risk in the Young) has funded a pathology service at the Royal Brompton Hospital in west London. It will pay for coroners to ship the heart there and can arrange quick appointments with expert cardiologists. "If you are identified with this condition you must move quickly because its an aggressive condition," said Alison Cox, chief executive of CRY. "I have people saying I can see you in two to three months' time. That isn't any good, its got to be two to three weeks' time. "All the experience the family has to go through in thinking they could have a child dead in a short period of time, you must produce a swift service and give the family confidence." It is a worry the family of Robert Lancaster are living with at the moment. The 21-year-old dropped dead on a family holiday while standing in a queue at a ski resort in Canada in March. His father, James, says his son died "just as he was growing into a man." In the weeks before his death, Robert had two medicals in preparation for taking up a new job. Nothing was found. James and his wife are now going through a series of tests to see if they are carrying the faulty gene, prior to their two other sons and two grandsons being examined. "In a strange way, (the tests) are giving us strength because once we found out what caused Robert to die, it made us focus on the living." 'cot death syndrome' theory 28 Mar 03 | Health CRY (Cardiac Risk in the Young) refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/4121411.stm | Pregnancy timeline 23 December, 2004, 13:42 GMT occurs and a ball of quickly multiplying cells embeds itself in the lining of the uterus. In the UK pregnancy is calculated from the first day of the woman's last period so for as much as three weeks of this first month she might not be actually pregnant. When fertilisation does occur the tiny mass of cells called a blastocyst at this stage embeds itself in the lining of the womb which is already thickening to support it. The mass of cells is developing fast and becomes an embryo. For many women the first sign of pregnancy is a missed period. Shopbought tests are considered largely reliable so the mother-to-be does not have to have her pregnancy confirmed by her GP. If a first test is negative a second one a few days later may prove positive as hormone levels in the urine rise. The embryo officially becomes a foetus. It is about the size of a baked bean and its spine and nervous system begin to form. The foetus already has its own blood system and may be a different blood group from its mother. Blood vessels are forming in what will become the umbilical cord and tiny buds which will become limbs appear. The baby&acute;s heart is beginning to develop. Morning sickness and other side effects of early pregnancy may take hold. Around this time many women find they experience the side-effects of early pregnancy including needing to urinate more often nausea and vomiting and feeling a bit weepy and irritable. All medication including supplements need to be carefully checked as the foetus is undergoing vital development in the first 12 weeks. If the woman has not told her GP or community midwife she is pregnant yet now is a good time to do so. It is quite common to have a first scan at this stage if the woman has had a previous miscarriage or bleeding. An early scan is often done through the vagina and is used to check the pregnancy is not ectopic. It should show up the baby&acute;s heartbeat. The nervous system is also developing rapidly especially the brain. The head gets bigger and eyes form under the skin of the face. The foetus' limbs are growing and look more like arms and legs. All internal organs are developing and becoming more complex. The foetus is about 5cm long with its head tucked onto its chest. It has most its major organs and eyes and ears are developing. A scan at 10-13 weeks is recommended to pin down the date of the pregnancy. The umbilical cord is fully formed providing nourishment and removing waste products. The foetus looks fully human now. By this week the threat of miscarriage is much reduced. Many women announce their pregnancy to friends and colleagues. The foetus is growing in length much more quickly by now it is about eight cm long and weighs about 60 grams. The placenta is now wellformed though it's not yet doing its full job it takes over fully in week 14. The mother is likely to have her first scan this week. The womans uterus is becoming larger and is starting to rise out of the pelvis. The foetus can move its head quite easily. Third of the way through. The average pregnancy lasts 266 days or 280 days from the first day of last period. Screening for Downs syndrome is offered about now. A simple blood test is carried out first then further tests may be offered. On the basis of the blood test results the woman may opt for a Chorionic Villus sample or an amniocentesis which would diagnose or other chromosomal abnormalities. However these diagnostic tests have a small risk of subsequent miscarriage. An alternative to blood tests is a nuchal translucency scan a new scan offered by some larger hospitals. But again an amniocentisis would be required for firm diagnosis. The foetus now has toe and finger nails eyebrows and eyelashes. It is also covered with downy hair. The hair that will cover the baby until the last week or so of pregnancy - called lanugo - starts to form. This hair is very fine more like down and it probably serves as some form of insulation and protection for the skin. The foetus can hear noises from the outside world. By this stage the mother is visibly pregnant and the uterus is rising. By this stage the foetus is moving around a lot - probably enough to be felt. The foetus is now about 15-20cm long and weighs about 300g. Milk teeth have formed in the gums. Half way through pregnancy now. Almost all mothers are offered a routine scan. The foetus develops a waxy coating called vernix. The scan can show the foetus in fine detail and often reveal if the baby is a boy or a girl. However not all hospitals offer to tell parents the sex of the child - and not all parents want to know. The mother may feel short of breath as her uterus pushes against her diaphragm leaving less space for the lungs. The mother may be offered another ultrasound scan around this time. The scan can check the baby&acute;s spine internal organs and growth are normal. Senses develop: taste buds have started to form on the tongue and the foetus starts to feel touch. The skeleton continues to develop and bones that form the skull begin to harden - but not fully. Antenatal checkup and scan to check the baby&acute;s position. A baby born this early does sometimes survive. A baby born at 24 weeks may possibly survive but it would have severe breathing difficulties as its lungs would not be strong enough to cope. It would also be very thin lightweight and susceptible to infections. All organs are now in place and the rest of the pregnancy is for growth. Preeclampsia is a risk from here onwards. This potentially fatal condition causes high blood pressure protein in the urine and swelling caused by fluid retention. The causes are unclear but research suggests it may be linked to an immune reaction to the foetus or the placenta. If the condition is serious women may be advised to take drugs to lower their blood pressure and in some cases an early caesarean or induction may be performed. Serious complications of pregnancy The foetus skin is gradually becoming more opaque than transparent. The foetus measures about 34cm and weighs about 800g. Routine checkup to test for preeclampsia. Women with Rhesus negative blood will also be tested for antibodies. If the mother has Rh negative blood but the baby is Rh positive she can develop antibodies to her baby&acute;s blood during labour. This is not a problem in the first birth but can affect subsequent pregnancies and result in stillbirth. Fortunately treatment is simple and effective. BBC Health: Ask the doctor - Rhesus disease Some women develop restless leg syndrome in their third trimester. This is sensations such as crawling tingling or even cramps and burning inside the foot or leg - often in the evening and at night disturbing sleep and making the mother feel she needs to get up and walk around. No-one knows what causes this harmless but irritating condition. Braxton Hicks contractions may begin around now. They are practice contractions which dont usually hurt. These are irregular, painless contractions which feel like a squeezing sensation near the top of the uterus. If contractions become painful or occur four times an hour or more, the woman should call a doctor as she may be in early labour. The foetus can see now and tell light from dark. The mother&acute;s breasts start to produce colostrum about now This high calorie milk is produced by the mother to feed the baby for the first few days after birth before normal milk starts. Another antenatal appointment. The foetus is about 42cm and weighs 2.2kg. A baby born now has a good chance of survival. From now the baby should become settled in a head downwards position. A midwife can help to move it if necessary. The mother may find it more difficult to eat full meals as the expanded uterus presses on her stomach. If the mother has been told she may need a planned caesarean, now is a good time to discuss it further. The baby&acute;s head may engage in the pelvis any time now. The baby&acute;s lungs are practically mature now and it can survive unaided. The final weeks in the womb are to put on weight. Babies born from this week onward are not considered early. Another ante-natal appointment. The mother has reached her full size and weight by now. In theory the baby should be born this week. The mother&acute;s cervix prepares for the birth by softening. First babies are often up to a week late but if there are signs of distress to mother or child the birth will be induced. week by week guide to what happens to mother and baby during pregnancy Nine months: An overview Cancer-drug refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies Week at a Glance
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6711379.stm | Call for dentists' NHS-work quota 3 June 2007, 23:29 GMT 00:29 UK for dentists' NHS-work quota BBC News, health reporter Some 2m people cannot get access to NHS dentistry NHS dentists should face quotas forcing them to do more NHS work rather than private treatments, campaigners say. Patient Concern said quotas should be imposed as figures show that for the first time under 50% of NHS dentists' income is now from NHS work. Labour MP Kevin Barron, of the Commons health committee, said dentists had a "moral obligation" to give the NHS more as it costs £175,000 to train them. But dentists said quotas would be "unfair and unworkable". According to latest figures from the NHS Information Centre, NHS dentists on average now earn about 52% of their income from private patients - the first time private work has accounted for a greater share. That compares with 42% in 1999-2000 and the rise has helped push average earnings up to £86,000 - a rise of 11% in a year. [Dentists] just do not have the same public sector ethos that GPs do for example An analysis of figures from the General Dental Council register also suggest the number of dentists treating solely private patients has soared by over a third in the last two years. There is no exact figure for how many are doing this, but it is estimated to be between 2,500 and 3,500. This compares with the 21,111 dentists with NHS contracts - a slight increase on previous years - but a figure which still leaves 2m people without access to NHS care. Mr Barron, who chairs the Commons health committee, said: "I think [dentists] are letting the country and taxpayer down. "The profession should take a good look at itself. [Dentists] just do not have the same public sector ethos that GPs do for example." Joyce Robins, co-director of Patient Concern, said: "Access to NHS dentistry has been a long-running problem, I don't see why we can't impose quotas on dentists who work in the health service to ensure they do more NHS work." She said this quota should be imposed on new dentists for several years before they could opt out, although dentists should still be allowed to do some private work. Professor Jimmy Steele, who teaches dental students at the University of Newcastle, said a quota on everyone would not be fair on dentists who had perhaps spent a lot of their career in the NHS. The reason dentists are turning towards private work is that they have been unhappy with the way the NHS [system] has worked for years Lester Ellman, of the British Dental Association But he agreed new dentists could be tied in to a certain amount of NHS work for a period after qualifying, suggesting five or 10 years. "They [dental students] are heavily supported by the taxpayer through long and expensive training so do have a duty to the NHS, but when I put that to my students they are sometimes surprised by the notion." But Lester Ellman, of the British Dental Association, said quotas would be "unfair and unworkable". "The reason dentists are turning towards private work is that they have been unhappy with the way the NHS [system] has worked for years. "They do not get time to treat the patients properly." A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "It would not be reasonable to prevent dentists carrying out private work if they are meeting their NHS commitments." She added a new system introduced last year was designed to give the NHS more funds if dentists left the NHS. Are you a dentist or patient affected by this story? Send us your comments by filling in the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. dental contract attacks mount 27 Mar 'dentists forced to take holidays' 28 Mar Mar dental access 'not improving' 26 Mar refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/6716707.stm | Report uncovers baby care worries 3 June 2007, 23:55 GMT 00:55 UK uncovers baby care worries The charity found mounting pressures on special care units A review of neonatal services in Scotland by premature baby charity Bliss has uncovered mounting pressures in the system. The report, titled Handle with Care, found the rate of closure to new admissions for neonatal care was higher in Scotland than in the rest of the UK. The charity also noted that staff shortages were placing extra burdens on parents. About one in seven babies in Scotland are admitted to special care units. Despite indications that the service is outperforming the rest of the UK in some areas, the report noted an overall decline in the provision of care being offered. The authors of the report, due to be published on Monday, also found that shortages in staffed cots resulted in units being forced to close or turn babies away, leading to some parents travelling longer distances to access the care they needed. Any half measures in the care of sick and premature babies are unacceptable Andy Cole, chief executive of Bliss, urged the new SNP Scottish Executive to commit more resources to the service. He said: "We have long been aware of the excellent practice taking place in Scotland's neonatal service, particularly with regard to their transport system and training of staff. "But there are many areas where much still remains to be done. "Any half measures in the care of sick and premature babies are unacceptable and it is essential that the new government commits the necessary resources to ensure that these babies have the best possible chances in life." In April, Bliss reported that the service that cares for sick and premature newborn babies in the UK was in decline and that it was further than ever from reaching recommended staffing ratios. The charity found that only 3% of UK units were reaching recommended staffing rations. According to data gathered for the new report, in Scotland that figure was zero. Rates of closures to new admissions were also worse north of the border with all of Scottish units exceeding capacity at least once in a six month period. The report says that admissions to Scottish units have risen by 402 infants from 2005 to 2006, while the number of cots has remained more or less static. Scottish units also have a higher closure rate - 97% of units had to close in a six-month period compared with 78% in the rest of the UK. Despite the concerns, some aspects of care saw Scotland outperforming the rest of the UK. Bliss found that Scottish units were more able to cope with intensive care demands and have more consultants with training in neonatal care than the rest of the UK. It is also widely accepted that the Scottish neonatal transport system is the best in the UK and a greater proportion of its nurses are trained in speciality. not revive' earliest babies 15 Nov 06 | Health 15 Nov 06 | Health Neonatal medicine - the moral maze 10 Nov 06 | Health Crisis in neonatal care 'deepens' 11 Jul 06 | Health Bliss, the premature baby charity for 13-year-old canoeist Home search in Vicky murder probe Penalty for poison case gamekeeper family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/3444635.stm | Cancer: The facts 30 January 2004, 11:57 GMT in three of us will be diagnosed with cancer during our life. The disease tends to affect older people - but can strike at any time. Excluding certain skin cancers, there were more than 270,000 new cases of the disease in 2001 - and the rate is increasing by about 1% a year. Some cancer, such as breast, are becoming more common, while new cases of lung cancer fall away due to the drop in the number of smokers. However, while the overall number of new cancers is not falling, the good news is that successful treatment rates for many of the most common types are improving rapidly. BBC News Online has produced, in conjunction with Cancer Research UK, a guide to some of the most common forms of cancer and the treatments used to tackle them. To learn more about different types of cancer, and to read the experiences of patients, click on the links to the right. - the facts Cervical and Uterine Cancers National Cancer Research Institute refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6718013.stm | Charges 'to see GPs in evening' 4 June 2007, 09:51 GMT 10:51 UK 'to see GPs in evening' GPs will discuss the motion later this month Patients who want to see a GP in the evening or weekend should face a charge, some family doctors say. The charge would apply only to routine appointments and not emergencies, says the motion to be proposed at a British Medical Association GPs' conference. Doctors said patients using surgeries at such times tended to be in employment and could afford to pay. But patients branded the idea a scandal and the government said it would not be introducing payments for care. The motion, put forward by a group of family doctors from across the country, states: "Resources for routine care outside core hours should be partially or wholly provided by a fee charged to the patient." A fee of between £15 and £20 has been suggested. They are going to be people in employment, almost by definition, and to ask them to bear the extra costs seems reasonable Dr Andrew Green, Yorkshire GP It will be discussed by GPs later this month. The idea comes amid widespread criticism for GPs over their high salaries. About a third of their pay now comes from bonuses for meeting targets on objectives such as reducing disease after a new contract started in 2004. In the first year of the deal, earnings rose by a third, breaking through the £100,000 barrier in the process. Dr Andrew Green, a GP from Hedon, Yorkshire, said the problems experienced by some patients in full-time work in accessing their GPs needed to be addressed in a way that would not impact the care offered to daytime patients. He said while these patients needed to be served at more convenient times, this should not impact other patients. "We need to make sure that the costs incurred don't take money from other sources. "They are going to be people in employment, almost by definition, and to ask them to bear the extra costs seems reasonable." He said in hospitals people often pay to see consultants privately so they can see them in the evenings or at weekends. "This choice should extend to patients in primary care," he said. But Michael Summers, of the Patients Association, criticised the suggestion. He said: "It is a scandal and it wouldn't be tolerated in any other country." And Katherine Murphy, spokeswoman for the association, said: "I think it is naive to assume only people that are in employment will need to access a GP out of hours. "GPs should make themselves more available outside normal working hours, the service is obviously not matching what patients want and this is the reason why this situation has now arisen. "It is already hard enough to see a GP and people are having to go to A&E for out of hours care." A Department of Health spokeswoman said: "We will never change the values of the NHS - universal, tax funded, free at the point of need. "Let's be clear - nobody should have to pay for these services." And Dr Hamish Meldrum, chairman of the BMA's GPs committee, said the proposal did not echo the views of the association as a whole. "BMA policy is against patient charging" you pay £20 to see a GP in the evening? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Brown calls for better GP cover 25 May GP out-of-hours care 25 May into GP service over death 08 Nov 06 | London GPs 'failed to diagnose' illness 05 Oct 06 | London Inquest into journalist's death 04 Oct 06 | London refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6707811.stm | Lazy 'can be encouraged to move' 1 June 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK 'can be encouraged to move' Encouraging walking could provide health benefits Health professionals can motivate even the most inactive people to increase the amount they walk, say researchers. However, they found advice had to be tailored to individual needs - adopting a "one size fits all" policy would not be as effective, they suggest. They found that with the right advice people could be motivated to walk for an extra 30-60 minutes a week - enough for significant health benefits. Exercise reduces the risk of heart disease, diabetes and some cancers. We can't point to a single silver bullet that will promote walking for everyone The researchers, from the Scottish Physical Activity Research Collaboration, reviewed 48 previous studies into promoting walking. The Scottish study features in the British Medical Journal. Promotion methods used included using pedometers or promoting walking as an environmentally friendly mode of transport. In some cases these methods have been targeted at whole communities, for example by handing out free pedometers. Lead author David Ogilvie said one size may not fit all, and to encourage more walking patients should be offered a range of options. He said face-to-face advice from healthcare professionals could be useful in enabling patients' needs to be assessed and individual advice given. Dr Ogilvie said: "We can't point to a single silver bullet that will promote walking for everyone, but we have found evidence that different approaches can be effective." He said different people would find different things useful as motivational tools. Some might find using a pedometer or attending group meetings to report their progress useful, while others could be motivated by environmental concerns to use walking as a method of transport. Ken Fox, professor of exercise and health science at the University of Bristol said as with any behavioural changes, asking people to increase their physical activity levels could present a difficult challenge, and different people could need different help. He said: "Everyone's personal situation is different, so tailoring recommendations to their different needs and circumstances is important." Cathy Ross, a Cardiac Nurse at the British Heart Foundation (BHF), said 30 minutes of daily, moderate-intensity physical activity could cut heart disease risks by half. She said: "Whatever way you do it, walking is a fantastic way for everyone to achieve their 30 a Day." 'not exercising enough' 28 May for 'deprived' pupils 24 Jan 07 | Education Get slim on the office treadmill 15 May Physical Activity Research Collaboration refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6717959.stm | Herceptin could cut mastectomies 4 June 2007, 08:55 GMT 09:55 UK could cut mastectomies Herceptin is used to treat women with HER-2 positive breast cancer Using the cancer drug Herceptin before surgery could reduce the number of mastectomies needed in women with breast cancer, scientists say. A study showed using the drug with chemotherapy before surgery completely eradicated tumours in 43% of patients with HER-2 positive breast cancer. This was almost twice as many as for patients treated only with chemotherapy - 23% of these showed the same effect. The findings were reported to the American Society for Clinical Oncology. Herceptin is currently used after surgery in women with HER-2 positive breast cancer to prevent tumours returning. About a quarter of the 44,000 breast cancer patients in the UK each year have HER-2 positive tumours, which are particularly aggressive and likely to return. Normally women with large tumours are treated with chemotherapy to shrink the tumours so that operations can be performed with less risk of having to remove the whole breast. In the new research scientists studied 228 patients with HER-2 positive breast cancer. 115 patients received chemotherapy plus Herceptin for one year, and 113 patients received chemotherapy alone, before surgery. Taking Herceptin made the shrinking more likely, as well as eradicating the tumours completely in many cases. In 38% pf patients tumours which had spread to other parts of the body were also removed. This is very welcome news for patients with a particularly aggressive form of breast cancer Professor Alex Markham, Cancer Research UK's senior medical advisor, said it was encouraging that the cancer was eradicated from the lymph nodes of some patients. He said the results of the study were exciting, but he added that it had only included a relatively small number of patients. Dr Andrew Wardley, consultant medical oncologist at Christie Hospital, Manchester, said the results added to the already substantial evidence supporting the use of Herceptin. He said: "This is very welcome news for patients with a particularly aggressive form of breast cancer, some of whom will no longer face the prospect of losing their breasts." He added that treating cancer early with Herceptin to eradicate it could have important implications for long-term survival. The research was carried out by cancer organisation Group SOLTI, and drug manufacturer Roche. breast cancer genes discovery 28 May replaces breast chemotherapy 17 May 'shown to save lives' 05 Jan Guide - Breast Cancer American Society of Clinical Oncology refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6714469.stm | Fake cancer drugs probe launched 2 June 2007, 06:49 GMT 07:49 UK cancer drugs probe launched The pills concerned carry the batch number 65520 A criminal investigation has been launched after a counterfeit batch of drugs used in the treatment of prostate cancer was discovered. The batch claiming to be of the hormone treatment Casodex has been recalled. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said: "We take this very seriously and a criminal investigation is being carried out." Patients whose medicine carries the batch number 65520 have been urged to contact their pharmacist. The MHRA, which oversees the regulation of medicines, said it had been contacted by a wholesaler who had been offered a suspicious batch of the medicine. Tests showed the batch medicine contained only 75% of the amount of the active ingredient bicalutamide shown on the label. "At present there is no evidence of patients having any adverse reactions specifically related to the counterfeits," the MHRA said in a statement. Casodex is produced by the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. Dr Chris Hiley, head of policy and research at The Prostate Cancer Charity, said: "This is the first time we have heard of counterfeit supplies of a well known prostate cancer treatment arriving and, possibly, being dispensed in the UK through the 'legitimate' supply chain. "This is clearly of great concern. The wholesaler who alerted the MHRA should be commended. "We have to wait and see how many of the batch are located and whether in fact men have taken any of them and, if so, for how long." option for prostate patients 18 Sep 01 | Health Prostate cancer drug 'encouraging' 13 May 01 | Health Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/default.stm 4 June 2007, 20:08 GMT 21:08 UK Cancer-drug refund scheme backed The makers of a bone marrow-cancer drug should refund the NHS if it does not work, a watchdog says. Are drug refunds the future? Killer heart condition 'ignored' The government is accused of ignoring a heart condition that kills hundreds of young people each year. Herceptin could cut mastectomies Herceptin could cut the need for mastectomies in breast cancer patients, research suggests. Call for pub alcohol warnings Call for dentists' NHS-work quota Charges 'to see GPs in evening' Inspection blitz on NHS hygiene Smokers face surgery demand MP calls for abortion counselling ALSO IN THE NEWS Is accepting some misery key to a happy relationship? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Survey highlights rise in baby skin problems Why one woman is opting for breast augmentation surgery Is cannabis causing severe damage to young smokers? Tackling a debilitating eye condition affecting one-in-five people Why stroke ups Alzheimer's risk Staff mental illness 'increasing' Baby care worries in Scotland Ginseng 'reduces cancer fatigue' Lazy 'can be encouraged to move' Gene therapy impotence 'hope' Boost to artery block treatment Fake drugs probe launched Heart disease and stroke 'My lungs are damaged beyond repair' Misery: the secret to happiness Misery: the secret to happiness 'Toby is very poorly, but he keeps us smiling' A comprehensive guide to clinical conditions FROM OTHER BBC SITES How different diseases combine in metabolic syndrome ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6712219.stm | Boost to artery block treatment 1 June 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK to artery block treatment The coronary arteries supply the heart muscle with blood Scientists are working on ways to cut the risk of blood clots following treatment to unblock clogged arteries. Stents, which are tiny tubes used to hold open the diseased blood vessels of heart patients, can themselves become blocked following treatment. A team from Germany reports success in The Lancet with a new biodegradable prototype. And an Irish team is to begin testing a new coating for stents. Experts welcomed the findings but said more work was needed. To improve blood flow through clogged heart blood vessels, a balloon is inflated inside the artery. This treatment - angioplasty - improves the blood supply to the heart muscle, which helps prevent angina and heart attacks. Once the balloon is withdrawn stents are inserted to prevent the artery from re-narrowing. The need for stenting is only temporary, but current metal stents remain in place for life. There is a risk that blood clots can occur within the stent and re-block the artery. Such events are rare, but can be life threatening. The stents tested by an international team led by Professor Raimund Erbel of the West German Heart Centre Essen, are made from biodegradable magnesium. Within four months of fitting they can dissolve and completely disappear, which the scientists reason will eliminate the risk of stent re-blockage. In tests, the biodegradable stents worked as well as conventional metal stents over 12 months, The Lancet reports. They were also safe - none of the 63 patients had heart attacks or developed a clot where the stent had been. Almost half of the patients had new blockages elsewhere in their arteries which would need treatment. This research shows that absorbable stents can be used as a safe alternative in the future But this is expected in heart patients because of the poor general state of their arteries and is unrelated to the type of stent used. Meanwhile, Professor Jim McLaughlin and colleagues in Ulster have developed a 3D plasma coating technique for stents, and are now preparing to test it in clinical trials. The stents, only a few millimetres wide, are covered in a diamond-like carbon structure. This forms a coating which is theoretically smooth enough to repel the proteins which could form clots. Professor McLaughlin said some forms of carbon were already well-known implant materials used for heart valves. He said: "Our group are now seeking to further develop and even commercialise the 3-D plasma-coating technique, which has already shown to be highly biocompatible and promising with regards to its mechanical properties." Professor Peter Weissberg, medical director at the British Heart Foundation, said: "This research shows that absorbable stents can be used as a safe alternative in the future, allowing the blood vessel to repair itself before the scaffold dissolves. "But before they can be used in routine practise, further research is needed to refine the stents to get the best result." for dissolving heart stent 11 Dec 06 | Health Heart op clot risk warning 04 Sep 01 | Health Doctors told: 'Take the tube' 12 May 00 | Health refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6713163.stm | Why stroke ups Alzheimer's risk 4 June 2007, 09:45 GMT 10:45 UK stroke ups Alzheimer's risk The research could help scientists stop Alzheimer's developing Scientists have shown how having a stroke - or even snoring heavily - can increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. A Leeds team found a lack of oxygen in the brain, which occurs during strokes or even in heavy snorers, can affect brain cells called astrocytes. The changes to the cells let glutamate, a neurotransmitter, build up - which could contribute to Alzheimer's. The Journal of Neuroscience study may help scientists prevent Alzheimer's. Under normal circumstances astrocytes mop up glutamate in the brain. However, the Leeds team found a lack of oxygen decreased the expression of proteins required by the cells to carry out this task. Even though the patient may outwardly recover, the hidden cell damage may be irreversible Glutamate is toxic if allowed to build up in high levels, so the accumulation could lead to brain cell death, and eventually to the onset of Alzheimer's. Lead researcher Professor Chris Peers said the study was important as it suggested why beta amyloid, the protein that builds up in the brains of Alzheimer's patients, is key to the process of triggering disease. It is already known that low oxygen can cause astrocytes to increase their production of beta amyloid. The latest research suggests it may be this increased production of beta amyloid that blocks expression of the proteins needed for astrocytes to mop up excess glutamate. Professor Peers said: "This is an important factor in what's going on in hypoxic brains. "Even though the patient may outwardly recover, the hidden cell damage may be irreversible." "It could even be an issue for people who snore heavily, whose sleep patterns are such that there will be times in the night when their brain is hypoxic - deprived of sufficient oxygen." Professor Susanne Sorensen, head of research at the Alzheimer's Society, said: "The team examined the role of cells that support neurones in the brain. "This is exciting because rather than focussing on neurones they looked at processes in the brain, which until now have not be researched in so much detail." Co-author Dr Hugh Pearson said: "For most forms of Alzheimer's we don't know what the underlying factor that makes people develop it is." He said that understanding processses that link having the stroke and developing Alzheimer's they could help with the development of treatments to intervene and so decrease the number of Alzheimer's cases. drug's impact hailed 14 May 'to rise' in next decade 03 May 07 | Northern Ireland BBC Guide - Alzheimer's Disease The Journal of Neuroscience refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6712603.stm | Inspection blitz on NHS hygiene 3 June 2007, 23:32 GMT 00:32 UK blitz on NHS hygiene The NHS is struggling to meet targets to cut superbugs The NHS in England is facing a blitz on hygiene standards as a watchdog uses new powers to crackdown on infections. The Healthcare Commission is to go into 120 NHS trusts unannounced in the next year to check cleanliness standards and infection control procedures. The watchdog has new powers under the Health Act 2006 to order trusts to improve their standards. It comes as the NHS struggles to meet the government's target of halving MRSA "superbug rates" between 2004 and 2008. It is odd that it has taken 10 years to introduce these unannounced checks, especially as it's been a period in which the number of deaths from MRSA has quadrupled Andrew Lansley, shadow health secretary Cases of MRSA are falling, but Clostridium difficile is becoming more common with 55,681 cases among the over-65s in 2006 - up 8% on the year before. The watchdog, which will be mainly focusing on hospitals but will also take in some mental health institutions, will examine whether the right management structures and infection control teams are in place. Inspectors will also be checking that patients with infection are isolated properly and hand-washing is common, as laid out in the government's hygiene code. Failure to meet any of the standards will require the trust to produce an action plan to address the problems. And if this does not resolve the issue, the Healthcare Commission can serve an "improvement notice" which can lead to direct intervention from the health secretary. It is envisaged about two-thirds of hospital trusts will face an inspection with the watchdog using its own data to target the high-risk trusts. Anna Walker, chief executive of the Healthcare Commission, said: "Although the commission seeks to reduce the overall number of inspections it makes, this is one area where we must be out there actively checking." Health Minister Lord Hunt said: "These rigorous checks will ensure that trusts adhere to the code and will help give patients the assurance that everything possible is being done to keep infections to a minimum." But shadow health secretary Andrew Lansley said the government should have acted years ago. "It is odd that it has taken 10 years to introduce these unannounced checks, especially as it's been a period in which the number of deaths from MRSA has quadrupled." Are you affected by this story? Send us your comments by filling in the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. AND AUDIO NEWS The problem of superbugs and cleanliness in hospitals Advice and information to help you get more from the NHS Call for more action on NHS bugs 25 Apr Apr over deadly hospital bugs 30 Jan superbug claims may surge 30 Nov 06 | Health Taking on the hospital superbug 09 Feb 06 | Health 'Hit squads' to help tackle MRSA 06 Feb 06 | Health MRSA deaths up by nearly quarter 23 Feb 06 | Health refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6717573.stm | Staff mental illness 'increasing' 4 June 2007, 01:21 GMT 02:21 UK mental illness 'increasing' A rising number of workers are said to be suffering stress Mental illness is now the second largest reason for UK workers taking time off, a report suggests. A study by the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development found an increasing amount of sickness leave is due to depression or stress. Analysis of the records of 30,000 people found only muscle-related problems such as bad backs were cited as a greater cause of absenteeism. Staff with depression were said to take an average 30 days off annually. Those with stress were reported to be away for 21 days. The CPID found public sector workers were more likely to take time off work because of mental illness and overall the problem was more prevalent among older staff. The CIPD said its findings will be "particularly worrying" for the government in light of a "huge" increase in the number of people with mental health problems claiming incapacity benefit. "This research shows how important it is for managers and HR practitioners to be aware of the signs of mental ill health so that they can take action early and provide support before the individual's condition deteriorates to the point they go off on long-term sick leave," said Ben Willmott, CIPD employee relations adviser. He called on the government to provide tax incentives to encourage more firms to offer occupational health services. GPs need to work more closely with employers to identify opportunities for "phased return-to-work" for those affected with less demanding or reduced hours roles, Mr Willmott added. Have you had to take time off work because of a mental illness? Are you an employer that has dealt with the issue? Send us your experiences by filling in the form below. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. 'make up 12% of absences' 10 Apr 07 | Business GPs 'see big rise in sick notes' 14 Jul 06 | Health Stress at work makes men ill 08 Jun 06 | Health in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6710999.stm | Ginseng 'reduces cancer fatigue' 3 June 2007, 14:39 GMT 15:39 UK 'reduces cancer fatigue' Ginseng is widely used by herbal practitioners The Chinese herb ginseng could give exhausted cancer patients a physical and emotional boost, research suggests. A US team at Rochester's Mayo Clinic found daily doses improved energy levels and emotional well-being, in a study of 282 patients. They say that as studies show over half of cancer patients experience crippling fatigue, adding ginseng to cancer therapies is worth exploring. Cancer experts urged caution until more work was carried out. The work was presented to the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Cancer fatigue is the most common side effect of cancer treatment and, according to Cancer Research UK, affects up to 90% of cancer patients. Many people with cancer say it is the most disruptive side-effect of all, rendering them so tired they are unable to perform everyday tasks. Of the evidence currently available, exercise and support seem to be most effective at tackling tiredness in cancer patients Josephine Querido, Cancer Research UK Ginseng has already been hailed as a remedy against colds and diabetes. Scientists believe it works by acting as an "adaptogen" - a substance that helps the body overcome stress effects. Since cancer patients can face high levels of stress, both physical and psychological, the Mayo team decided to test whether ginseng would be of benefit. They enrolled 282 cancer patients and divided them at random into four groups - a control group, who received their normal cancer treatment and a dummy drug, plus three treatment groups who received one of three daily doses of ginseng (750mg, 1,000mg or 2,000mg) alongside their usual therapy. After eight weeks, they surveyed the patients. The group given the dummy drug reported no improvement, but the patients who had been taking the ginseng reported improvements in overall energy levels and experienced less fatigue-affected activity. The ginseng groups said they felt better mentally, physically, spiritually and emotionally. The improvements appeared to be dose related, with those on the highest dose reporting the greatest gains. But the scientists stressed it would be premature to recommend ginseng supplements to cancer patients. Lead researcher Dr Debra Barton explained: "Whilst the results were promising, we have more research to conduct." Her team now plans to look at what dose is most appropriate. Dr Barton said there were many different formulations of ginseng available on the market and that all might not work identically. Josephine Querido, of Cancer Research UK, said: "It's too early to say whether using ginseng will help reduce tiredness in people with cancer. Further work may shed more light on this. "Of the evidence currently available, exercise and support seem to be most effective at tackling tiredness in cancer patients." She added: "If you're considering using complementary therapies, such as herbal supplements, you should always discuss this with your GP." 'helps to ward off colds' 25 Oct 05 | Health Ginseng berry treats diabetes 24 May 02 | Health Herbal remedy pregnancy warning 25 Sep 03 | Health American Society of Clinical Oncology refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/health/6718935.stm | Call for pub alcohol warnings 4 June 2007, 12:08 GMT 13:08 UK for pub alcohol warnings Drinks served in glasses are not covered by government proposals Pubs should put up posters and restaurants include warnings in menus giving information about the number of units in alcoholic drinks, doctors say. The government announced last month that alcohol labelling will come into force by the end of next year. But the voluntary agreement with industry excludes drinks served in glasses - such as pints of beer. The British Medical Association said the proposals did not go far enough and said people needed better information. It is not the nanny state. It is the information state Dr Vivienne Nathanson, of the BMA Dr Vivienne Nathanson, head of science and ethics at the BMA, said posters could be put up in nightclubs and pubs, while restaurants could contain the information in menus. "It is not the nanny state. It is the information state. It is about informed choices. "It is hard for the average person to work out how many units are in a drink these days. "Glasses of wine are much larger than they used to be and many beers and wines are much stronger. "This means the old assumptions about units are underestimates." Under the government's proposals, all drinks sold in shops or those that come pre-bottled in pubs will have warnings on them including the number of units each drink contains and more general warnings about the risks of drinking to excess. A spokesman for the British Beer and Pub Association said: "We are in discussion with government about how to make people more aware about how much they are drinking." But he suggested that posters may not be the answer. "What we want to do is work out what is the most effective approach." The BMA made the suggestion as they launched a report into the dangers of drinking alcohol during pregnancy. They recommended that women should not drink alcohol at all while trying to conceive or during pregnancy - just as the government had said last month. It represents a strengthening of position in the UK, with women traditionally advised one or two units a week was okay. However, the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists is still stressing pregnant women are fine to drink alcohol as long as they keep it to no more than one or two units once or twice a week. The BMA report admitted there was no definitive evidence that low levels of alcohol harmed the foetus, but said it was safer to abstain. Doctors also warned that foetal alcohol syndrome disorders, which include abnormal facial features, growth deficiency and learning difficulties, were not being diagnosed. About 100 babies a year are diagnosed with foetal alcohol syndrome in the UK - the most severe form of the condition. But Sir Charles George, chairman of the BMA's board of science, said the true rates of milder forms of the condition, which could just include learning difficulties or behavioural problems, could be 10 times higher than that. "The problem is that doctors and the public are not aware enough of the condition." health warnings by 2008 28 May alcohol in pregnancy' advised 25 May warnings for drinks cans 13 Apr 06 | Health UK young women 'out-drinking men' 21 Mar 06 | UK Surgeon calls for pub drink limit 11 Dec 05 | Scotland One in four are binge drinkers 27 Oct 05 | Health Drink culture death rate warning 05 Jan 06 | Scotland British Beer and Pub Association refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/health/6711213.stm | Gene therapy 'hope' on impotence 3 June 2007, 00:06 GMT 01:06 UK therapy 'hope' on impotence The gene therapy work is moving from the lab to the clinic US scientists say they are closer to creating a gene therapy treatment for erectile dysfunction. Human and animal trials suggest this could offer an alternative to current treatments for some patients, the American Society of Gene Therapy heard. Researchers say gene therapy could be effective far longer than pills used just before sex, improving spontaneity. The human trials involved injections into the penis and some experts queried whether men would choose this option. Erectile dysfunction (ED), often referred to as impotence, is thought to affect about one in every 10 men in the UK. ED collectively means an inability to get a good enough erection to achieve satisfactory intercourse, but it varies in severity. There are many causes, and many effective treatments, including drugs like the three licensed in the UK - Viagra, Cialis and Levitra. But not all types of ED respond well to medication - for example, ED caused by nerve damage following prostate cancer surgery. US researchers are hopeful that for these patients, and those who experience side-effects with medication, gene therapy may be a good alternative. A University of Pittsburgh team, led by Dr Joseph Glorioso, tested an experimental gene therapy in rats with ED caused by nerve damage. The gene therapy used comprised the herpes simplex virus as a carrier and either a gene called GDNF, or one called neurturin, which both help promote nerve growth. Rats treated with the gene therapy showed significant recovery and were able to regain normal penile function after four weeks. This is an exciting field of research because current treatments for men with erectile dysfunction must be used 'on demand', thereby reducing the spontaneity of the sexual act Researcher Dr Arnold Melman Meanwhile, scientists at Wake Forest University, with the help of Dr Arnold Melman from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, have been conducting the first human study of gene therapy for ED. Tests on 11 men with ED showed promising results. The treatment was well-tolerated, with few side effects, despite its delivery via an injection into the penis. Although the primary goal of the study was to determine its safety, it also showed the therapy improved erectile function in some of the men. Dr Melman said: "This is an exciting field of research because current treatments for men with erectile dysfunction, whether pills or minimally invasive therapies, must be used 'on demand', thereby reducing the spontaneity of the sexual act." The Wake Forest therapy works by inserting small pieces of DNA into cells to trigger the production of proteins which, in turn, help smooth muscle cells relax. Relaxing the smooth muscle in the penis allows it to fill with blood and achieve an erection. Dr Geoff Hackett, president of the British Society for Sexual Medicine, said the gene therapy might be appealing to some men for whom other treatments had failed, but predicted many men would be reluctant to have a shot in the penis. He stressed that many men with ED also had underlying medical disease, such as high blood pressure, raised cholesterol or diabetes, and that this should also be treated. And there is a good argument for treating ED as a chronic disease too, he said. "Maybe men with ED should be taking a pill for it every day. If you take smaller amounts regularly, the side-effects are less," he explained. could aid jetlag recovery 22 May venom could boost sex life 04 May 07 | Americas Impotency rub-on gel developed 05 Jul 06 | Health American Society of Gene Therapy British Society for Sexual Medicine Wake Forest University School of Medicine University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine Albert Einstein College of Medicine refund scheme backed Killer heart condition 'ignored' Herceptin could cut mastectomies family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
