http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu1.html Injustice 5, Justice 4 5, Justice 4 Supreme Court struck a blow for discrimination this week by stripping a key civil rights law of much of its potency. The majority opinion, by Justice Samuel Alito, forced an unreasonable reading on the law, and tossed aside longstanding precedents to rule in favor of an Alabama employer that had underpaid a female employee for years. The ruling is the latest indication that a court that once proudly stood up for the disadvantaged is increasingly protective of the powerful. Lilly Ledbetter, a supervisor at the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company in Gadsden, Ala., sued her employer for paying her less than its male supervisors. At first, her salary was in line with the men’s, but she got smaller raises, which created a significant pay gap. Late in her career, Ms. Ledbetter filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. A jury found that Goodyear violated her rights under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Goodyear argued that she filed her complaint too late and, by a 5-4 margin, the Supreme Court agreed. Title VII requires employees to file within 180 days of “the alleged unlawful employment practice.” The court calculated the deadline from the day Ms. Ledbetter received her last discriminatory raise. Bizarrely, the majority insisted it did not matter that Goodyear was still paying her far less than her male counterparts when she filed her complaint. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted that there were strong precedents supporting Ms. Ledbetter. The Supreme Court ruled in a similar race discrimination case that each paycheck calculated on the basis of past discrimination is unlawful under Title VII. The courts of appeals have overwhelmingly agreed. So did the E.E.O.C., the agency charged with enforcing Title VII. In addition to interpreting the statute unreasonably and ignoring the relevant precedents, the majority blinded itself to the realities of the workplace. Employees generally do not know enough about what their co-workers earn, or how pay decisions are made, to file a complaint precisely when discrimination occurs. At Goodyear, as at many companies, salaries were confidential. The court’s new rules will make it extraordinarily difficult for victims of pay discrimination to sue under Title VII. That is not how Congress intended the law to be enforced, merely how five justices would like it to be. It is disturbing that Anthony Kennedy, the court’s swing justice, cast the deciding vote in favor of gutting a key part of the Civil Rights Act. Fortunately, Congress can amend the law to undo this damaging decision. It should do so without delay. to Hear Case on Wages Of Home Aides Court Explores Complexities In Job Discrimination Case Religion-Based Tax Breaks: Housing to Paychecks to Books Grasso Moves To Reinstate A Jury Trial Equal Employment Opportunity Commission The Goodyear Tire & Rubber
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31gawande.html? TimesSelect Article 5 of 13 in Opinion Go to a Section The Obama Health Plan ultimate measure of leadership is the capacity to take a health plan and persuade people to find common ground in it. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31kristof.html TimesSelect Article 6 of 13 in Opinion Go to a Section From Torture to Plaintiff: a Pilgrim&#8217;s Progress in China By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF the Chinese government continues to nurture the rule of law, China could increasingly move toward greater democracy. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu4.html A Clean Start at the World Bank Clean Start at the World Bank how much better it would have been if President Bush had simply named Robert Zoellick to lead the World Bank two years ago instead of putting the bank, his administration and the world through the unnecessary and embarrassing Paul Wolfowitz ordeal. Now that Mr. Zoellick — far more qualified both in experience and temperament — has been nominated for the job, we hope that he will be quickly confirmed so that the bank’s professional staff can refocus its attention on the urgent jobs of combating poverty, promoting development and encouraging good governance. We also hope that Mr. Zoellick will not shy away from the important challenge of fighting corruption, a campaign that Mr. Wolfowitz embraced but then undermined through his own ethical obtuseness, in arranging a transfer and extraordinary pay raise for his companion. Good causes should not fall victim to bad appointments, once the offending actor has been removed and a strong replacement is waiting to take charge. Mr. Zoellick is just about everything Mr. Wolfowitz was not. He is an able diplomat, experienced and interested in the details of development, trade and governance and widely respected in the many countries he has dealt with in his long career as a top State Department official and as America’s top trade negotiator. Clientitis and outright corruption have historically been real problems at the bank — too many loans have been approved for no better reason than to keep the borrowing government happy and too few questions asked about how the bank’s money has actually been used. The bank lends some $23 billion a year to poor countries, and is currently trying to raise $30 billion to finance new loans to the poorest among them. It cannot go on asking taxpayers in the developed world to underwrite its activities without demanding transparent accounting and public accountability for how its money is used. Billions of the world’s neediest people live in countries too poor and too undeveloped to have access to commercial lending at market rates. Globalization cannot succeed if these countries continue to be left behind. Other countries that have managed to raise average incomes need the technical and managerial expertise the bank can provide. Two precious years have been largely wasted. Mr. Zoellick cannot get to work soon enough. Deputy Intends to Resign, Aides Say Fiorina Called Candidate for World Bank Trade Envoy Is Favorite to Lead World Bank Interim Trade Triumph Short on Hard Details Third World and Developing Countries
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html Editorials & Opinion 5, Justice 4 The Supreme Court’s latest ruling indicates that a court that once proudly stood up for the disadvantaged is increasingly protective of the powerful. Isolating an Evasive TB Patient Congressional oversight committees ought to examine what steps can be taken to ensure that patients infected with deadly contagious diseases protect others from infection. The Continuing Saga of SIPP The Bush administration should try to secure full financing for what is arguably the single most important survey on the effects of government programs on Americans’ lives. A Clean Start at the World Bank Robert Zoellick is just about everything Paul Wolfowitz was not. What I Think About Evolution I believe wholeheartedly that there cannot be any contradiction between faith and reason. Speak Whale to Me It’s not easy to tell great whales what to do; it is even harder to figure out what drives them. An Age of Reason, From Al Gore (6 Letters) The Lifestyles of the Elderly (5 Letters) Tips for the Tourist: When in Rome ... (2 Letters) Democracy in Pakistan (1 Letter) Human Trafficking (1 Letter) Worms in the Apartment Practicing genuinely clean living in New York City. All Hail the Green Cabs The idea of an environmentally friendly fleet is not new, but Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s full embrace of it is. Go to N.Y./Region Opinions » Audio Slide Show: All the Body’s a Stage What motivates people to get a celebrity tattoo? Video: Calvin Trillin Gets Parked The author of the first parking novel test drives the first car that parks itself. Bush’s Iraq Plan, Between the Lines The Year in Questions A Note to Readers: The Op-Ed columnists appear on a new schedule. The Obama Health Plan The ultimate measure of leadership is the capacity to take a health plan and persuade people to find common ground in it. From Torture to Plaintiff: a Pilgrim’s Progress in China If the Chinese government continues to nurture the rule of law, China could increasingly move toward greater democracy. Video: A Journey Through China The Animated Life: L'Eau Life A short animated film created for TimesSelect by artist Jeff Scher. Part of Sightlines, a TimesSelect visual series. A Journey Across China Nicholas D. Kristof is optimistic about China's ability to open up with the Olympics on the horizon. Campaigning for History: Reflections on the American Presidency Geoffrey Perret on the presidency as depicted in film. Dick Cavett: Talk Show On how the brain works in comedy writing. Our Lives as Atoms Mark Buchanan on why corrupt people don’t see themselves as corrupt. A woman's story about how she helped avert a terror attack is vindicated by the Department of Homeland Security. Also: conservative bloggers are in agreement on immigration reform. Judith Warner: Domestic Disturbances The author looks at American vs. British coverage of a child’s disappearance. Nicholas D. Kristof: On the Ground Most ordinary people in China seem unaware of their government's support for the Sudanese regime as it conducts genocide in Darfur. Mind Games: Food Import Folly Protect the United States from contaminants found in foreign food imports in this interactive game created for TimesSelect. a TimesSelect visual series. Pipeline: Tapping Into the Wide World of Oil Lisa Margonelli examines the workings of the global oil market and discovers some beauty in the chaos. In her first illustrated column, Rutu Modan remembers her first trip to New York from Israel. , a new TimesSelect visual series. Floyd Norris: Indexes Can Mislead The S.&P. 500 hits a new high, something most American stocks have been doing for many months. Stanley Fish: Think Again The author reminds frustrated media watchdogs that there is no such thing as a spin-free zone. From the Talking Points Archive By ROBERT B. SEMPLE Jr. Thirty years of research have produced a range of new technologies that can help turn abundant energy sources — wind, biomass, solar, even water itself — into alternative fuels. A Note to Readers: The Op-Ed columnists appear on a new schedule.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu2.html Isolating an Evasive TB Patient an Evasive TB Patient has been more than 40 years since the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ordered anyone into quarantine or isolation, but the agency was amply justified in taking that extreme action in recent days. It was dealing with a patient infected with a very-hard-to-treat form of tuberculosis who had put his own convenience ahead of the safety of others. The only question is whether health officials should have acted sooner. The patient, who lives in the Atlanta area, has shown no overt symptoms, such as coughing up blood or sputum. But laboratory tests have confirmed that he is infected with “extensively drug resistant” bacteria, a form of TB that kills a high percentage of those infected around the world. The patient does not appear to be highly infectious, but he has the potential to threaten the lives of those who come into prolonged contact with him, especially those with compromised immune systems. The chief concern at the moment is people who sat near him on two trans-Atlantic flights. County health officials in Georgia say that they told the patient that he should not travel abroad. In an interview with the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, the patient, who has not been named, says he thought they were only expressing a preference and that they did not flat-out order him to cancel a planned wedding and honeymoon in Europe. He left before a written directive against travel could be hand-delivered. Only after the man was already in Europe did laboratory tests discover that his case was the most serious kind. Officials contacted him in Rome and told him not to fly commercial airlines and to await alternative travel arrangements or possible isolation and treatment in Italy. Instead, he and his new bride booked a flight into Canada to evade a possible no-fly list and drove down to New York, where the C.D.C. finally coaxed them to a hospital and slapped an isolation order on him before transferring him by government plane back to Georgia. Health officials have long preferred to rely on infected people to behave responsibly rather than resort to compulsory orders. But in this case, that trust was clearly abused. Congressional oversight committees ought to examine whether health officials dropped the ball — and what steps can be taken to ensure that patients infected with deadly contagious diseases protect others from infection. Declines, but Not in Immigrants Tuberculosis Cases Prompt Warning on Raw-Milk Cheese Infections in Newly Freed Inmates Are a Rising Concern National Briefing | Science And Health: Deaths Linked To TB Drugs Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu3.html The Continuing Saga of SIPP Continuing Saga of SIPP year ago, the Bush administration decided to kill what is arguably the single most important survey on the effects of government programs on Americans’ lives. In a rare and welcome reversal, the administration has heeded the protest of policy experts and Congress and has decided to continue the project, known as SIPP, or Survey of Income and Program Participation. Conducted by the Census Bureau since 1984, the survey provides much of what policy makers and the public know about the success or failure of government efforts to address poverty, health insurance and the problems of working families and the disabled. It is especially useful in projecting the impact of proposed changes in government policy. On welfare-to-work programs, the SIPP has identified why some people move successfully into jobs while others revert to chronic unemployment. Having a disabled child, for instance, is a big reason that many women can’t hold a job. If the goal is to move more women into work, that suggests the need for appropriate child care. On health insurance coverage, the survey has tracked individuals over long periods of time, revealing a truer picture of the number of uninsured Americans and the causes of on-and-off coverage, information that is necessary to properly define the problem — and solve it. Policy experts, in and out of government, worked to save the SIPP. They made the case that the administration’s proposed replacement survey was untested and that even if it ultimately proved adequate, would not be ready anytime soon, thus creating an information void for several years. Having realized how important the SIPP is, the administration must now secure its full funding. When the White House developed its budget for 2008, it was planning on ending the survey and did not allocate any funds for it. Lawmakers could add the $35 million that is needed, but the White House has threatened to veto spending that exceeds its recommended levels. The administration should officially modify its budget request to ensure that the SIPP is fully funded. The information is too valuable to forgo. States Politics and Government
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31rothenberg.html?ex=1338264000&en=097ec794eb3cd01d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Speak Whale to Me Whale to Me to next paragraph IT’S no surprise that the mother and calf humpback whales that wandered many miles up the Sacramento River, but that yesterday disappeared, presumably into the Pacific, did not respond as hoped to attempts to lure them downstream by playing recordings of whale noises. When it comes to sounds and songs, these animals behave in mysterious ways. Consider the beautiful music that whales make, which became known to us 37 years ago when “Songs of the Humpback Whale” was released — and went on to become one of the best-selling nature recordings of all time. The whales’ long, drawn-out melodies thunder on, loudly enough to be heard underwater for a distance of at least 10 miles. Five- to 20-minute songs — marked by repeating phrases, rhythm and even rhyme — are sung over and over for hours on end. Because only the males sing, scientists long assumed that their songs were mating calls directed at females — like bird song in spring. But observation of humpback whale behavior has revealed that females actually pay no attention to the males’ singing. Other explanations have been proposed: that males sing to warn other males away, for example, or that the songs act as some kind of beacon to help migrating whales navigate. The most recent theory on why whales sing comes from James Darling, a researcher who for many years has carefully observed the interactions of singing humpback whales near Maui, Hawaii. Mr. Darling has observed that males singing alone usually will join up with another male for a brief but almost always friendly, or at least conflict-free, interaction. And so he thinks it is likely that male whales sing to one another. During breeding, their songs somehow may help them to cooperate, and to recognize their closest male associates. Whale song has another unexplained aspect that no bird song possesses. Across a single breeding ground, and in some cases across the reach of an ocean basin as large as the North Pacific, the whales all sing essentially the same tune. And as the season progresses, they collectively revise it, adding new melodies and taking others away. Over several mating seasons, songs are entirely changed. (Today’s humpbacks would not recognize the music on “Songs of the Humpback Whale” from 1970.) The whales evolve their common songs simultaneously even though some of them are much too far apart from one another to hear the changes at the same time. How do they know what new notes to choose? What guides the changes they make? Scientists don’t know, and hardly know how to find out. Because the whales that were in the Sacramento River are females, whale songs probably would not have lured them downstream. So marine biologists tried playing feeding calls. This strategy worked 22 years ago when Humphrey, another humpback, was stuck in the same river. This time, it didn’t work. It’s not easy to tell great whales what to do; it is even harder to figure out what drives them. But it is encouraging to see how many people have rallied round the cause of this stranded family. There may be a reason whales have been drawn more than once to swim miles up this particular river. The more we observe them, the more we may learn. David Rothenberg, a professor of philosophy and music at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, is the author of “Why Birds Sing” and the forthcoming “Thousand Mile Song: Whale Music in a Sea of Sound.”
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu1.html Injustice 5, Justice 4 - 5, Justice 4 Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 The Supreme Court struck a blow for discrimination this week by stripping a key civil rights law of much of its potency. The majority opinion, by Justice Samuel Alito, forced an unreasonable reading on the law, and tossed aside longstanding precedents to rule in favor of an Alabama employer that had underpaid a female employee for years. The ruling is the latest indication that a court that once proudly stood up for the disadvantaged is increasingly protective of the powerful. Lilly Ledbetter, a supervisor at the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company in Gadsden, Ala., sued her employer for paying her less than its male supervisors. At first, her salary was in line with the men’s, but she got smaller raises, which created a significant pay gap. Late in her career, Ms. Ledbetter filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. A jury found that Goodyear violated her rights under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Goodyear argued that she filed her complaint too late and, by a 5-4 margin, the Supreme Court agreed. Title VII requires employees to file within 180 days of “the alleged unlawful employment practice.” The court calculated the deadline from the day Ms. Ledbetter received her last discriminatory raise. Bizarrely, the majority insisted it did not matter that Goodyear was still paying her far less than her male counterparts when she filed her complaint. In dissent, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg noted that there were strong precedents supporting Ms. Ledbetter. The Supreme Court ruled in a similar race discrimination case that each paycheck calculated on the basis of past discrimination is unlawful under Title VII. The courts of appeals have overwhelmingly agreed. So did the E.E.O.C., the agency charged with enforcing Title VII. In addition to interpreting the statute unreasonably and ignoring the relevant precedents, the majority blinded itself to the realities of the workplace. Employees generally do not know enough about what their co-workers earn, or how pay decisions are made, to file a complaint precisely when discrimination occurs. At Goodyear, as at many companies, salaries were confidential. The court’s new rules will make it extraordinarily difficult for victims of pay discrimination to sue under Title VII. That is not how Congress intended the law to be enforced, merely how five justices would like it to be. It is disturbing that Anthony Kennedy, the court’s swing justice, cast the deciding vote in favor of gutting a key part of the Civil Rights Act. Fortunately, Congress can amend the law to undo this damaging decision. It should do so without delay. find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Justices to Hear Case on Wages Of Home Aides Court Explores Complexities In Job Discrimination Case Religion-Based Tax Breaks: Housing to Paychecks to Books Grasso Moves To Reinstate A Jury Trial Equal Employment Opportunity Commission The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31gawande.html? TimesSelect Article 5 of 13 in Opinion Go to a Section The Obama Health Plan Published: May 31, 2007 The ultimate measure of leadership is the capacity to take a health plan and persuade people to find common ground in it. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31kristof.html TimesSelect Article 6 of 13 in Opinion Go to a Section From Torture to Plaintiff: a Pilgrim&#8217;s Progress in China By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF Published: May 31, 2007 If the Chinese government continues to nurture the rule of law, China could increasingly move toward greater democracy. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu4.html A Clean Start at the World Bank - Clean Start at the World Bank Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 Think how much better it would have been if President Bush had simply named Robert Zoellick to lead the World Bank two years ago instead of putting the bank, his administration and the world through the unnecessary and embarrassing Paul Wolfowitz ordeal. Now that Mr. Zoellick — far more qualified both in experience and temperament — has been nominated for the job, we hope that he will be quickly confirmed so that the bank’s professional staff can refocus its attention on the urgent jobs of combating poverty, promoting development and encouraging good governance. We also hope that Mr. Zoellick will not shy away from the important challenge of fighting corruption, a campaign that Mr. Wolfowitz embraced but then undermined through his own ethical obtuseness, in arranging a transfer and extraordinary pay raise for his companion. Good causes should not fall victim to bad appointments, once the offending actor has been removed and a strong replacement is waiting to take charge. Mr. Zoellick is just about everything Mr. Wolfowitz was not. He is an able diplomat, experienced and interested in the details of development, trade and governance and widely respected in the many countries he has dealt with in his long career as a top State Department official and as America’s top trade negotiator. Clientitis and outright corruption have historically been real problems at the bank — too many loans have been approved for no better reason than to keep the borrowing government happy and too few questions asked about how the bank’s money has actually been used. The bank lends some $23 billion a year to poor countries, and is currently trying to raise $30 billion to finance new loans to the poorest among them. It cannot go on asking taxpayers in the developed world to underwrite its activities without demanding transparent accounting and public accountability for how its money is used. Billions of the world’s neediest people live in countries too poor and too undeveloped to have access to commercial lending at market rates. Globalization cannot succeed if these countries continue to be left behind. Other countries that have managed to raise average incomes need the technical and managerial expertise the bank can provide. Two precious years have been largely wasted. Mr. Zoellick cannot get to work soon enough. find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Rice's Deputy Intends to Resign, Aides Say Fiorina Called Candidate for World Bank Trade Envoy Is Favorite to Lead World Bank Interim Trade Triumph Short on Hard Details Third World and Developing Countries & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html Editorials & Opinion - 5, Justice 4 The Supreme Court’s latest ruling indicates that a court that once proudly stood up for the disadvantaged is increasingly protective of the powerful. Isolating an Evasive TB Patient Congressional oversight committees ought to examine what steps can be taken to ensure that patients infected with deadly contagious diseases protect others from infection. The Continuing Saga of SIPP The Bush administration should try to secure full financing for what is arguably the single most important survey on the effects of government programs on Americans’ lives. A Clean Start at the World Bank Robert Zoellick is just about everything Paul Wolfowitz was not. What I Think About Evolution I believe wholeheartedly that there cannot be any contradiction between faith and reason. Speak Whale to Me It’s not easy to tell great whales what to do; it is even harder to figure out what drives them. An Age of Reason, From Al Gore (6 Letters) The Lifestyles of the Elderly (5 Letters) Tips for the Tourist: When in Rome ... (2 Letters) Democracy in Pakistan (1 Letter) Human Trafficking (1 Letter) Worms in the Apartment Practicing genuinely clean living in New York City. All Hail the Green Cabs The idea of an environmentally friendly fleet is not new, but Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s full embrace of it is. Go to N.Y./Region Opinions » Audio Slide Show: All the Body’s a Stage What motivates people to get a celebrity tattoo? Video: Calvin Trillin Gets Parked The author of the first parking novel test drives the first car that parks itself. Bush’s Iraq Plan, Between the Lines The Year in Questions A Note to Readers: The Op-Ed columnists appear on a new schedule. The Obama Health Plan The ultimate measure of leadership is the capacity to take a health plan and persuade people to find common ground in it. From Torture to Plaintiff: a Pilgrim’s Progress in China If the Chinese government continues to nurture the rule of law, China could increasingly move toward greater democracy. Video: A Journey Through China The Animated Life: L'Eau Life A short animated film created for TimesSelect by artist Jeff Scher. Part of Sightlines, a TimesSelect visual series. A Journey Across China Nicholas D. Kristof is optimistic about China's ability to open up with the Olympics on the horizon. Campaigning for History: Reflections on the American Presidency Geoffrey Perret on the presidency as depicted in film. Dick Cavett: Talk Show On how the brain works in comedy writing. Our Lives as Atoms Mark Buchanan on why corrupt people don’t see themselves as corrupt. A woman's story about how she helped avert a terror attack is vindicated by the Department of Homeland Security. Also: conservative bloggers are in agreement on immigration reform. Judith Warner: Domestic Disturbances The author looks at American vs. British coverage of a child’s disappearance. Nicholas D. Kristof: On the Ground Most ordinary people in China seem unaware of their government's support for the Sudanese regime as it conducts genocide in Darfur. Mind Games: Food Import Folly Protect the United States from contaminants found in foreign food imports in this interactive game created for TimesSelect. a TimesSelect visual series. Pipeline: Tapping Into the Wide World of Oil Lisa Margonelli examines the workings of the global oil market and discovers some beauty in the chaos. In her first illustrated column, Rutu Modan remembers her first trip to New York from Israel. , a new TimesSelect visual series. Floyd Norris: Indexes Can Mislead The S.&P. 500 hits a new high, something most American stocks have been doing for many months. Stanley Fish: Think Again The author reminds frustrated media watchdogs that there is no such thing as a spin-free zone. From the Talking Points Archive By ROBERT B. SEMPLE Jr. Thirty years of research have produced a range of new technologies that can help turn abundant energy sources — wind, biomass, solar, even water itself — into alternative fuels. A Note to Readers: The Op-Ed columnists appear on a new schedule.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu2.html Isolating an Evasive TB Patient - an Evasive TB Patient Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 It has been more than 40 years since the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ordered anyone into quarantine or isolation, but the agency was amply justified in taking that extreme action in recent days. It was dealing with a patient infected with a very-hard-to-treat form of tuberculosis who had put his own convenience ahead of the safety of others. The only question is whether health officials should have acted sooner. The patient, who lives in the Atlanta area, has shown no overt symptoms, such as coughing up blood or sputum. But laboratory tests have confirmed that he is infected with “extensively drug resistant” bacteria, a form of TB that kills a high percentage of those infected around the world. The patient does not appear to be highly infectious, but he has the potential to threaten the lives of those who come into prolonged contact with him, especially those with compromised immune systems. The chief concern at the moment is people who sat near him on two trans-Atlantic flights. County health officials in Georgia say that they told the patient that he should not travel abroad. In an interview with the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, the patient, who has not been named, says he thought they were only expressing a preference and that they did not flat-out order him to cancel a planned wedding and honeymoon in Europe. He left before a written directive against travel could be hand-delivered. Only after the man was already in Europe did laboratory tests discover that his case was the most serious kind. Officials contacted him in Rome and told him not to fly commercial airlines and to await alternative travel arrangements or possible isolation and treatment in Italy. Instead, he and his new bride booked a flight into Canada to evade a possible no-fly list and drove down to New York, where the C.D.C. finally coaxed them to a hospital and slapped an isolation order on him before transferring him by government plane back to Georgia. Health officials have long preferred to rely on infected people to behave responsibly rather than resort to compulsory orders. But in this case, that trust was clearly abused. Congressional oversight committees ought to examine whether health officials dropped the ball — and what steps can be taken to ensure that patients infected with deadly contagious diseases protect others from infection. find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. TB Declines, but Not in Immigrants Tuberculosis Cases Prompt Warning on Raw-Milk Cheese Infections in Newly Freed Inmates Are a Rising Concern National Briefing | Science And Health: Deaths Linked To TB Drugs Centers for Disease Control and Prevention & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31thu3.html The Continuing Saga of SIPP - Continuing Saga of SIPP Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 A year ago, the Bush administration decided to kill what is arguably the single most important survey on the effects of government programs on Americans’ lives. In a rare and welcome reversal, the administration has heeded the protest of policy experts and Congress and has decided to continue the project, known as SIPP, or Survey of Income and Program Participation. Conducted by the Census Bureau since 1984, the survey provides much of what policy makers and the public know about the success or failure of government efforts to address poverty, health insurance and the problems of working families and the disabled. It is especially useful in projecting the impact of proposed changes in government policy. On welfare-to-work programs, the SIPP has identified why some people move successfully into jobs while others revert to chronic unemployment. Having a disabled child, for instance, is a big reason that many women can’t hold a job. If the goal is to move more women into work, that suggests the need for appropriate child care. On health insurance coverage, the survey has tracked individuals over long periods of time, revealing a truer picture of the number of uninsured Americans and the causes of on-and-off coverage, information that is necessary to properly define the problem — and solve it. Policy experts, in and out of government, worked to save the SIPP. They made the case that the administration’s proposed replacement survey was untested and that even if it ultimately proved adequate, would not be ready anytime soon, thus creating an information void for several years. Having realized how important the SIPP is, the administration must now secure its full funding. When the White House developed its budget for 2008, it was planning on ending the survey and did not allocate any funds for it. Lawmakers could add the $35 million that is needed, but the White House has threatened to veto spending that exceeds its recommended levels. The administration should officially modify its budget request to ensure that the SIPP is fully funded. The information is too valuable to forgo. find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. United States Politics and Government & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/opinion/31rothenberg.html?ex=1338264000&en=097ec794eb3cd01d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Speak Whale to Me - Whale to Me Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 Skip to next paragraph IT’S no surprise that the mother and calf humpback whales that wandered many miles up the Sacramento River, but that yesterday disappeared, presumably into the Pacific, did not respond as hoped to attempts to lure them downstream by playing recordings of whale noises. When it comes to sounds and songs, these animals behave in mysterious ways. Consider the beautiful music that whales make, which became known to us 37 years ago when “Songs of the Humpback Whale” was released — and went on to become one of the best-selling nature recordings of all time. The whales’ long, drawn-out melodies thunder on, loudly enough to be heard underwater for a distance of at least 10 miles. Five- to 20-minute songs — marked by repeating phrases, rhythm and even rhyme — are sung over and over for hours on end. Because only the males sing, scientists long assumed that their songs were mating calls directed at females — like bird song in spring. But observation of humpback whale behavior has revealed that females actually pay no attention to the males’ singing. Other explanations have been proposed: that males sing to warn other males away, for example, or that the songs act as some kind of beacon to help migrating whales navigate. The most recent theory on why whales sing comes from James Darling, a researcher who for many years has carefully observed the interactions of singing humpback whales near Maui, Hawaii. Mr. Darling has observed that males singing alone usually will join up with another male for a brief but almost always friendly, or at least conflict-free, interaction. And so he thinks it is likely that male whales sing to one another. During breeding, their songs somehow may help them to cooperate, and to recognize their closest male associates. Whale song has another unexplained aspect that no bird song possesses. Across a single breeding ground, and in some cases across the reach of an ocean basin as large as the North Pacific, the whales all sing essentially the same tune. And as the season progresses, they collectively revise it, adding new melodies and taking others away. Over several mating seasons, songs are entirely changed. (Today’s humpbacks would not recognize the music on “Songs of the Humpback Whale” from 1970.) The whales evolve their common songs simultaneously even though some of them are much too far apart from one another to hear the changes at the same time. How do they know what new notes to choose? What guides the changes they make? Scientists don’t know, and hardly know how to find out. Because the whales that were in the Sacramento River are females, whale songs probably would not have lured them downstream. So marine biologists tried playing feeding calls. This strategy worked 22 years ago when Humphrey, another humpback, was stuck in the same river. This time, it didn’t work. It’s not easy to tell great whales what to do; it is even harder to figure out what drives them. But it is encouraging to see how many people have rallied round the cause of this stranded family. There may be a reason whales have been drawn more than once to swim miles up this particular river. The more we observe them, the more we may learn. David Rothenberg, a professor of philosophy and music at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, is the author of “Why Birds Sing” and the forthcoming “Thousand Mile Song: Whale Music in a Sea of Sound.” find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04mon3.html?ex=1338609600&en=af4fef2800d2bfc2&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Congress Hobbles the AIDS Fight - Hobbles the AIDS Fight Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 Washington, D.C., is one of America&#8217;s AIDS hot spots. A significant proportion of infections can be traced back to intravenous drug users who shared contaminated needles and then passed on the infection to spouses, lovers or unborn children. This public health disaster is partly the fault of Congress. It has wrongly and disastrously used its power over the District of Columbia&#8217;s budget to bar the city from spending even locally raised tax dollars on programs that have slowed the spread of disease by giving drug addicts access to clean needles. Every state in the union allows some system for providing addicts with clean needles. But nearly a decade ago, ideologues in Congress who were unable to derail needle programs in their own states chose to grandstand on the issue when it came time to pass the District&#8217;s appropriation bill. Barred from spending local tax dollars on these medically necessary programs, the city has limped along with a privately financed operation that turns away more people than it serves. Critics offer the same know-nothing arguments. They say that handing out needles legitimizes drug use &#151; even though studies here and abroad showed long ago that the programs cut the infection rate without increasing addiction. They say that addicts should be offered treatment instead of clean needles &#151; even though addicts who want treatment must sometimes wait for months or even years to get in. While they wait, they continue to use drugs and become infected. Congress&#8217;s ban on even locally financed needle exchange programs in the District of Columbia is an insult to the city&#8217;s voters and a clear hazard to public health. Ideologues, in the House in particular, need to get out of the way and let public health officials save lives. Next Article in Opinion (3 of 13) &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Alone in a City&#8217;s AIDS Battle, Hoping for Backup Libya Again Sentences Nurses and Doctor to Die in H.I.V. Case China's Muslims Awake to Nexus of Needles and AIDS The Last Holdout Reconsiders A Program to Curb H.I.V. Hypodermic Needles and Syringes Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome Drug Abuse and Traffic Next Article in Opinion (3 of 13) &#x00bb; Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04mon2.html Terrorists, Chemicals and Trains - Chemicals and Trains Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 A bill is moving forward in Congress that would take important and much-needed steps to protect Americans from terrorist attacks. But it may not address one of the most glaring vulnerabilities: chemicals traveling by rail. The House has voted to include restrictions on rail transport of deadly chemicals, but the Senate has not. If Congress is serious about protecting against terrorism, it will include the House provision in the final bill. If terrorists attacked a chlorine tank as it traveled through downtown Washington, or another city, it could produce a toxic chemical cloud that would put the lives of hundreds of thousands of people at risk. Terrorism experts agree that rail cars filled with chemicals are an easy target. And the recent attacks on trains in Europe, and the use of chemicals in attacks in Iraq, should put America on notice about the seriousness of the threat. The only real way to avoid that grim possibility &#151; and the frightening likelihood of mass casualties that could come with it &#151; is to require railroads to route dangerous chemicals away from densely populated areas. Representative Edward Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, introduced a good bill that includes reasonable provisions for rerouting hazardous chemicals. The requirements would not be onerous or expensive. Only a small percentage of shipments would be affected &#151; the ones with the most dangerous chemicals, like chlorine and propane. There are plenty of rail lines that bypass populated areas, and it is not difficult to reroute individual cars. It is an indication of the bill&#8217;s moderate, common-sense approach that it passed the House with broad bipartisan support. Unfortunately, the Senate failed to pass its own version of the Markey bill, which was sponsored by Joseph Biden, Democrat of Delaware. A main reason the Biden provision failed was lobbying by the chemical industry, an enormous contributor to political campaigns. The industry seems to believe that even after Sept. 11 and the recent rail and subway attacks in Europe, it should not be subjected to meaningful new government safety regulations. Especially when deadly chemicals are involved, rail security is too important to leave to the good will of the businesses involved. When Senate and House conferees meet to hammer out a final version of the broader homeland security bill, they will have to choose between looking out for the convenience and bottom line of industry and safeguarding the lives of Americans. It should not be a hard choice. Next Article in Opinion (2 of 13) &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Tighter Rule on Hazardous Rail Cargo Is Ready Despite 9/11 Effect, Railyards Are Still Vulnerable National Briefing | Rockies: Utah: Rail Car Leak Forces Evacuation U.S. Efforts to Hide Sensitive Data Pit 9/11 Concerns Against Safety United States Politics and Government Next Article in Opinion (2 of 13) &#x00bb; Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/opinion/index.html Editorials & Opinion - Senate must make sure a flawed immigration bill doesn’t get worse. That means beating back a particularly noxious amendment from Senator John Cornyn of Texas. Terrorists, Chemicals and Trains If Congress is serious about protecting against terrorism, it will include restrictions on rail transport of deadly chemicals in a new anti-terrorism bill. Congress Hobbles the AIDS Fight Congress’s ban on even locally financed needle exchange programs in the District of Columbia is an insult to the city’s voters and a clear hazard to public health. Editorial Observer: Love and Debt: The Game of Life Now Takes Plastic A new, updated version of the board game has all the passivity of the old one, and whether you are a Ph.D. nanny or a 7-year-old daddy, you don’t control where you end up. Show Us the Money By SUSAN E. REED Congress needs to make salary data as transparent for ordinary workers as it is for Supreme Court justices. By KIM ANDREW ELLIOTT America’s basic approach to international broadcasting — telling the truth, even when it is unpleasant — should be allowed to continue at Al Hurra, the the Arabic-language television channel financed by our government. What Stroke Victims Don’t Know (6 Letters) The Mass in Latin (Redux) (2 Letters) Compete With China (1 Letter) The Look of War (1 Letter) Worms in the Apartment Practicing genuinely clean living in New York City. Legislators must listen to the health experts and not the lobbyists for the food, drink and dairy businesses. That means banning sodas, candy, sports drinks and high-fat dairy products from schools. Go to N.Y./Region Opinions » Audio Slide Show: All the Body’s a Stage What motivates people to get a celebrity tattoo? Video: Calvin Trillin Gets Parked The author of the first parking novel test drives the first car that parks itself. Bush’s Iraq Plan, Between the Lines The Year in Questions A Note to Readers: The Op-Ed columnists appear on a new schedule. Escape From North Korea Brave conductors on a modern Underground Railroad. Video: On the North Korean Border Obama in Second Place The Obama health care plan is better than I feared but not as comprehensive as I would have liked. Neither poodle nor lackey, Tony Blair has been point man and link between Europe and the United States. Stanley Fish: Think Again The author takes another look at the structures and philosophies of political spin. Home Fires: Five Iraq War Veterans on Their Return to American Life In a new blog, Jeffrey D. Barnett remembers the odd normalcy of the day of his return from Iraq. Richard Conniff: Basic Instincts Nature writer Richard Conniff looks at behavior on two, four and six legs in a new blog. With organic produce, what may be good for the eater is not always good for the farmer; an argument as to why Democrats should consider supporting immigration reform. Judith Warner: Domestic Disturbances The author responds to the voluminous and passionate reaction to her last column on the abduction of a British child. Our Lives as Atoms Mark Buchanan on the reaction to Al Gore’s new book, “The Assault on Reason.” Campaigning for History: Reflections on the American Presidency Margaret MacMillan on the state of the State of the Union addresses. Dick Cavett: Talk Show On how the brain works in comedy writing. Nicholas D. Kristof: On the Ground Most ordinary people in China seem unaware of their government's support for the Sudanese regime as it conducts genocide in Darfur. Video: A Journey Across China Mind Games: Food Import Folly Protect the United States from contaminants found in foreign food imports in this interactive game created for TimesSelect. a TimesSelect visual series. In her first illustrated column, Rutu Modan remembers her first trip to New York from Israel. , a new TimesSelect visual series. Floyd Norris: Hire the Old Folks Old people are working more, and young people are working less. The Animated Life: L'Eau Life A short animated film created for TimesSelect by artist Jeff Scher. , a TimesSelect visual series. From the Talking Points Archive By ROBERT B. SEMPLE Jr. Thirty years of research have produced a range of new technologies that can help turn abundant energy sources — wind, biomass, solar, even water itself — into alternative fuels. A Note to Readers: The Op-Ed columnists appear on a new schedule. The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04mon4.html?ex=1338609600&en=5d587c582e8ce433&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Love and Debt: The Game of Life Now Takes Plastic - and Debt: The Game of Life Now Takes Plastic Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 If life&#8217;s a game, I can only hope it&#8217;s not a game like the Game of Life. That&#8217;s the one where you drive a plastic car along a winding path, going to work or college and picking up pink and blue pegs for children until you end up at a McMansion and get to count your money. I played it with my young daughter a couple of times and found it excruciating, probably because of how effectively it boiled life down to its plodding essence, a march to suburban retirement. It made me long for the solace of death, but that is not an option in this game. The Game of Life may be tedious but it&#8217;s indestructible. It was invented in 1860 by Milton Bradley, updated 100 years later to the version baby boomers know and revised several times since. The subtext of virtue battling vice was ditched ages ago, but the basic format has always been one Mr. Bradley would recognize. But maybe not anymore. A new edition, perhaps the biggest rethinking of the game in 40 years, is coming out in August, to be sold beside the old one. Called the Game of Life Twists and Turns, it splits the route to bourgeois bliss into four paths of fulfillment: money, education, family and fun. Or, as the board has it, Earn It! Learn It! Love It! Live It! The idea is that life is not just about money. It&#8217;s about money &#151; or Life points, which you get by earning degrees, buying things, having babies or traveling. You don&#8217;t slog to retirement now; you go around in circles until time is up. Even more radically, the game eliminates cash. In a brazen bit of corporate branding, Life&#174; now takes Visa&#174;. Your children (ages 9 and up) will be playing with plastic. Last month Hasbro sent me a prototype, and I sat down to play with my 11-year-old daughter and a friend of hers, age 12. From a large array of starting careers, I chose strawberry picker. It suggested limited possibilities, but I figured that a hard-wired competitive streak would carry me through. I picked a green skateboard (you can buy a car later) and set out to Earn It! After four turns, I was $343,400 in debt. It soon became clear that this was not a big deal. This is not a game that forces you to ashamedly flip real-estate cards upside down to scrounge up cash. You decide what you need, and borrow it: $200,000, $500,000 or $1 million for a house, $20,000 for a college degree. You can&#8217;t really skimp your way out of debt, because with every turn, things happen, expenses pop up and money comes your way &#151; or not. All you can do is roll with it. Everything depends on the Lifepod, a battery-powered device that acts as central banker, accountant, lottery, maternity ward and dice roller. It pays your salary, tracks your Life points, totes up your debts and deducts money automatically from your account if, say, another player gets married and needs a gift. Life went on and soon I had a Ph.D. and a $40,000 salary. I won a promotion, to nanny. I erased my debt and earned enough money and Life points to humiliate my competition. But &#8220;earned&#8221; may not be the best word, since my victory hinged on my having won the lottery three times. Later I watched the girls play with two friends, a boy age 7 and his 10-year-old sister. The girls all lined up on Learn It! and went into debt for college. The boy went the family route, though he was taken aback when he had to STOP! to get married. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t want to get married,&#8221; he said. Then he had a baby girl. &#8220;I don&#8217;t want a girl baby. I want a boy. Can I take her to the orphanage?&#8221; Here&#8217;s how it ended: The girls all had their Ph.D.&#8217;s and mountains of debt. The little boy never went to college, but was flush with lottery winnings and Life points, from all those kids. He won. His sister wistfully regretted having put her education ahead of motherhood. If she plays more, she may learn to strategize better, though it seems that the promise on the box &#151; A thousand ways to live your life! You choose! &#151; is not quite right. The new game has all the passivity of the old one, and whether you are a Ph.D. nanny or a 7-year-old daddy, you don&#8217;t control where you end up. Money, points, everything ... the electronic Lifepod tracks it all! true. You don&#8217;t have to keep track of money anymore. You don&#8217;t count it, flaunt it or even know exactly how much you have. The Lifepod does it all for you, and when it adds up money and Life points to pick a winner, it uses a secret formula that changes with every game. The message is clear: Stop worrying and get on with Life. With godlike electronics, Hasbro has made the Game of Life easier and a little more interesting. And for all of us who don&#8217;t check balances or reconcile statements and go to sleep each night on towering, fluffy cushions of debt, it&#8217;s now a lot more lifelike. Next Article in Opinion (4 of 13) &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Atlantic City May Lose Out in a New Version of Monopoly COMPANY NEWS; HASBRO TO SELL GAMES WITH NICKELODEON CHARACTERS THE GOODS; Getting a Seat at the Board-Game Table PrivateSector; Know Your American Monuments And You Won't Go Directly to Jail Families and Family Life Next Article in Opinion (4 of 13) &#x00bb; Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04elliott.html?ex=1338609600&en=9f75d8c30de44145&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Air of Truth - In to E-Mail or Save This By KIM ANDREW ELLIOTT Published: June 4, 2007 WHEN the Voice of America radio service first went on the air in February 1942, it promised German listeners: “The news may be good. The news may be bad. We shall tell you the truth.” Because Voice of America transmitted accurate news even when things were going badly for the Allies, the audience believed its reporting when the tide of the war turned. Telling the truth built credibility, the most vital commodity of international broadcasting. But in our current war, the Arabic-language television channel financed by our government, Al Hurra, faces Congressional criticism because of its reporting of the news. Over the past year, the station has broadcast a speech by the leader of Hezbollah, excerpts of a speech by a Hamas leader and coverage of a conference in Tehran denying the Holocaust. Al Hurra is reviewing the newsworthiness of these stories. Whatever the outcome of this investigation, it should not lead to a change in America’s basic approach to international broadcasting, as some members of Congress have proposed. At a recent subcommittee hearing about Al Hurra, Representative Mike Pence, Republican of Indiana, said: “I believe in a free and independent press. This is, however, a diplomatic mission of the United States of America. And are we communicating in a very practical way to employees down the line that this is not a ‘we report, you decide’ television station?” The president of Al Hurra’s parent corporation, Brian Coniff, suggested a willingness to move in the direction advocated by Mr. Pence. “We need to find as many venues within the organization as possible that this isn’t just straight journalism, but it’s journalism with a mission,” Mr. Coniff said. I have worked in international broadcasting audience research during the past 30 years. Surveys and focus groups tell me that people tune to foreign broadcasts for information that is more reliable than what they get from their state-controlled domestic news media. They want “just straight journalism.” They will sense if their news has “mission” mixed into it. A station transmitting full-time advocacy of American policies would not attract many listeners or viewers. They’ll tune elsewhere, probably to the BBC, whose Arabic-language television channel starts later this year. If Congress wants to do propaganda, the government should purchase advertisements in newspapers and on television stations in the target country. Ideally, America’s international broadcasting would be conducted by the private sector. This would help provide stations with the independence required to maintain credibility, and there would be no expense to the taxpayer. In reality, there are few prospects for commercially self-sustaining international broadcasting in Arabic, and almost none in Central Asian languages like Dari, Pashto, Persian or Urdu. So the government must pay for the stations, while at the same time giving them the independence necessary to provide a credible news product. Audiences may disagree with American policies and actions, but they will be appreciative that the United States is providing an accurate, balanced news service. Propaganda to sell unpopular policies might give the audience another reason to dislike the United States. Comprehensive news is a demonstration of democracy in action. It provides the independent journalism that is necessary for a democracy to function. It will cover the debate between the government and the opposition. And audiences will hear about politicians — American politicians — whose views are closer to their own. Even if audiences are not compelled to agree with American policies in the present crisis, at least good will and credibility will have accumulated. Those could be useful in the next crisis. Kim Andrew Elliott is an audience research analyst at the United States International Broadcasting Bureau. Next Article in Opinion (9 of 13) &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Washington's Arabic TV Effort Gets Mixed Reviews THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ: HEARTS AND MINDS; Coming Soon to Arab TV's: U.S. Answer to Al Jazeera, Production Values and All News and News Media United States Politics and Government Next Article in Opinion (9 of 13) &#x00bb; Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04kristof.html? The TimesSelect Article 5 of 13 in Opinion Go to a Section Escape From North Korea By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF Published: June 4, 2007 Brave conductors on a modern Underground Railroad. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com The
http://select.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04krugman.html The TimesSelect Article 6 of 13 in Opinion Go to a Section Obama in Second Place Published: June 4, 2007 The Obama health care plan is better than I feared but not as comprehensive as I would have liked. To continue reading this article, you must be a subscriber to TimesSelect. upgrade to TimesSelect for free now Not a newspaper subscriber? Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect now. Not ready for TimesSelect? Read today's top news, reviews and more - free on NYTimes.com The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04mon1.html Immigration Sabotage - In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 The Senate plans to resume debate today on its proposed immigration overhaul, which has withstood more than a week of bombardment from critics right and left. More than 100 amendments are circling, many designed to make the tortuously drafted compromise meaner, narrower and nastier. The coalition that struck the deal has so far stood firm against efforts to gut its more generous and sensible provisions. While there is so much to do to improve this flawed bill, the senators also must make sure it doesn’t get worse. That means beating back a particularly noxious amendment from Senator John Cornyn of Texas. Its ostensible purpose is to “close a gaping loophole” that Mr. Cornyn says would allow terrorists, gang members and sex offenders into the country. But his real target is bigger than that. He had no appetite for the bipartisan compromise and now wants to destroy it by attacking one of its pillars: a path to legal status for an estimated 12 million immigrants. Mr. Cornyn would do this by significantly expanding the universe of offenses that make someone ineligible for legalization. Some people who used fake identity papers — a huge portion of the undocumented population — would be disqualified. The amendment would also expand the definition of “aggravated felonies,” an already overbroad category of crimes, to include the act of entering or re-entering the country illegally. Even more perversely, the amendment applies retroactively. So people who crossed illegally years ago — even those whose sentences have been suspended — would be subject to the drastic consequences of being declared “aggravated felons.” They would face mandatory detention and deportation under already negligible protections of due process. Under the system Mr. Cornyn wants, someone who comes forward to immigration authorities in good faith and admits using a fake Social Security card could end up not on a path to earned legalization, but arrested and deported, depending on the whims of zealous prosecutors. Those aren’t the only parts of the amendment that could have been drafted by Kafka. A provision to keep out anyone who fails to show “good moral character” would give the attorney general broad discretion to bar any and all immigrants. That discretion would not be reviewable, secret evidence would be allowed, and an immigrant could see an application for naturalization denied and never know the reason. This amendment is so far from the spirit of comprehensive reform that it amounts to legislative sabotage. It deserves to be decisively defeated. Next Article in Opinion (1 of 13) &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. THE IMMIGRATION LEGISLATION; 3 Months of Tense Talks Led to Immigration Deal A G.O.P. Split On Immigration Vexes a Senator Immigrants' Medical Care Is Focus of Texas Dispute United States Politics and Government Next Article in Opinion (1 of 13) &#x00bb; Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/opinion/04reed.html Show Us the Money - Us the Money Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By SUSAN E. REED Published: June 4, 2007 THIS year, each of the eight associate justices of the Supreme Court will earn $203,000. The only woman and the only African-American on the court are paid the same as their six white male colleagues. Only Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. earns more than everyone else, $212,100. Their pay is set by Congress, and it is a matter of public record. Congress should pass legislation mandating that all workplaces create this kind of transparency by requiring companies to post salaries. It makes sense, especially in light of the court’s decision last week requiring employees to file pay discrimination complaints under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act within 180 days of the last pay adjustment. It’s only fair since the five justices who supported this decision must have thought that it was easy for employees to find out whether they are being discriminated against. They must never have had to sidle up to co-workers and whisper nosy questions about pay to find out how they ranked. They must never have been so desperate for proof that they considered hacking into the company database or ransacking the human resources office searching for pay rosters. It’s understandable that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which is responsible for investigating pay discrimination complaints, requires evidence. But some employees have not discovered evidence that they are paid less until after the 180 days has expired. For example, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg in her dissent cited two cases. One involved a veterinarian in Massachusetts, who learned that she was being paid less than her male counterparts when a newspaper published a list of her colleagues’ salaries. The other dealt with a worker at General Motors who learned long after the fact that her starting salary was set lower than those of her male co-workers. If we are really going to enforce the 180-day rule, then Congress needs to make it easier for workers to procure the necessary evidence. The solution is to make salary data as transparent for ordinary workers as for Supreme Court justices. Most business owners don’t want salary information released, reasoning that it would give their competitors an advantage. Yet many courts have said that wages are set by the market, but a market isn’t free if only the buyers of labor know the wages that are paid. To ease the tension that posting salaries may create, the E.E.O.C. could issue guidelines to employers about how to determine fair salaries and identify the biases against women that result in lower salaries. The E.E.O.C. could remind employers that it is illegal to base pay and promotions on racial and sexual stereotypes. Before the law goes into effect, companies could have a yearlong grace period to examine their salaries, perhaps with the help of an outside auditor. During that time, the companies would be immune from pay-related discrimination claims. And at the end of the grace period, they would have to provide annual salary lists to all company employees. Most Americans have never been comfortable discussing their wages. If employees enjoyed discussing salaries with their colleagues, then we would have hit television shows like “Pay in the City” and books and movies like “Salaries and the Single Girl.” Contestants on “The Apprentice” would fantasize about suing Donald Trump for discrimination, and the tireless Ugly Betty would question her boss about her meager paycheck. Requiring companies to post salaries would give employers and employees a chance to begin discussing wages as responsible adults instead of as king and supplicant, or owner and beggar. It would help employees to better understand what their jobs are worth, and it would encourage their bosses to see how much more loyalty and productivity they could get from their workers in the absence of secret salary negotiations. In the end, fewer employees might file discrimination complaints, and if they did, at least they’d be able to gather enough evidence to meet the deadline. Susan E. Reed, a journalist, is a fellow at the Alicia Patterson Foundation in Washington. Next Article in Opinion (8 of 13) &#x00bb; To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Legislation Pushed to Require Minimum Wage for Domestic Workers For New York, Big Job Growth Is in Home Care Congress Passes Increase In the Minimum Wage A Japanese Export: Talent; Technologists See Brighter Prospects in Other Parts of Asia Next Article in Opinion (8 of 13) &#x00bb; Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
