http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6703721.stm 'was on drugs' court told 31 May 2007, 07:32 GMT 08:32 'was on drugs' court told Michael is currently touring Europe Pop star George Michael had a cocktail of drugs in his system when he was arrested in his car last year, a London court has heard. The singer, whose real name is George Panayitou, has admitted driving while unfit, but says his condition was due to "tiredness and prescribed drugs". The 43-year-old was arrested in October 2006 after motorists reported a driver slumped over the wheel of a Mercedes at traffic lights in north London. Sentencing has been put back to 8 June. Prosecutor Andrew Torrington told Brent Magistrates' Court in north London that tests showed a therapeutic quantity of an anti-depressant in the singer's system as well as the illegal dance club drug GHB. Cannabis was also found in his blood, but the prosecution do not maintain that this was the cause of his intoxication. Michael (left) began his pop career as a member of Wham! The star's lawyer claimed a sleeping drug was the most likely explanation for his condition. He also told the court it was common for traces of GHB to be found in the blood even if the drug had not been taken. Prosecutors agreed that, while GHB is a banned class C drug, its effects could be created by other substances which are not controlled, including a drug called GBL. District Judge Katherine Marshall said the issue at stake was not the drug involved, but the condition Mr Michael was in when he was discovered in his car in October last year. The BBC's Ben Ando, who was at the hearing, said it was made clear that the star could expect to be sentenced at the "upper end of the scale for this offence". Mr Michael, who was not present, has already pleaded guilty to driving while unfit under the influence of drugs, which carries a maximum penalty of six months in jail. At a court appearance earlier this month, the former Wham! frontman addressed District Judge Katherine Marshall directly, saying: "I did something very stupid and I am very ashamed since doing it. "I'm not used to defending myself in a position where I am ashamed of something." He added: "I really have been very distressed by this whole thing. I am perfectly aware that I did something very wrong and got into my car when I was unfit to drive." Since his court appearance, Mr Michael has revealed he is addicted to prescription drugs and believes the world would be a better place if more people smoked marijuana. He will attend Brent Magistrates' Court to receive his sentence on 8 June, one day before he performs the first concert at the new Wembley stadium. After the hearing Michael said in a statement: "I have accepted throughout this affair that I was not in a fit state to have been driving a motor vehicle in the early hours of 1 October 2006 and accordingly pleaded guilty to the charge of driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs before Brent Magistrates' Court on 8 May 2007. "I am delighted that at today's hearing the court accepted that the proper approach to my case is that which I have always maintained, in that I was unfit through a combination of tiredness and prescribed drugs, and that I will be sentenced on this basis. "I would like to conclude by saying I am really looking forward to playing Wembley Stadium on 9 and 10 June." AND AUDIO NEWS George Michael's previous court appearance Michael defends cannabis smoking 19 admits drug-drive charge 08 court hearing for Michael 25 Apr adds fresh Wembley date 09 Mar
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6699847.stm over TV kidney competition 29 May 2007, 10:44 GMT 11:44 over TV kidney competition The show comes from Big Brother creators Endemol A Dutch TV station says it will go ahead with a programme in which a terminally ill woman selects one of three patients to receive her kidneys. Political parties have called for The Big Donor Show to be scrapped, but broadcaster BNN says it will highlight the country's shortage of organ donors. "It's a crazy idea," said Joop Atsma, of the ruling Christian Democrat Party. "It can't be possible that, in the Netherlands, people vote about who's getting a kidney," he told the BBC. The programme, from Big Brother creators Endemol, is due to be screened on Friday night. Specialists in kidney transplants have condemned the programme The 37-year-old donor, identified only as Lisa, will make her choice based on the contestants' history, profile and conversation with their family and friends. Viewers will also be able to send in their advice by text message during the 80-minute show. The Dutch donor authority has condemned the show, as have kidney specialists in the UK. "The scenario portrayed in this programme is ethically totally unacceptable," said Professor John Feehally, who has just ended his term as president of the UK's Renal Association. "The show will not further understanding of transplants," he added. "Instead it will cause confusion and anxiety." I thought organ recipients were chosen on who is the closest match, not who the donor likes the most Steve Davies, Romford, UK Send us your comments Professor Feehally also pointed out that, under normal circumstances, two people would benefit from a donor, each receiving one kidney. "The set up of the programme bears no relationship to the way decisions are made about transplants in the real world," he said. "Living donors can choose altruistically to give one of their kidneys - usually to a family member. "If organs become available after someone dies, health professionals with access to detailed information about those waiting for a transplant make objective decisions about who should receive those particular kidneys." BNN chairman Laurens Drillich has defended the show The former director of TV station BNN, Bart de Graaff, died from kidney failure aged 35 after spending years on a transplant waiting list. "The chance for a kidney for the contestants is 33%," said the station's current chairman, Laurens Drillich. "This is much higher than that for people on a waiting list." "We think that is disastrous, so we are acting in a shocking way to bring attention to this problem." "For years and years we have had problems in the Netherlands with organ donations and especially kidney donations," agreed Alexander Pechtold of D-66, the Dutch social liberal party. "You can have a discussion about if this is distasteful, but finally we have a public debate," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. TV critics in the UK have expressed horror at the programme, but said such a show would be unlikely in Britain. "My first reaction, probably everyone's reaction, is that this is as dangerously near as we've got to a TV programme playing God," said Julia Raeside of the Guardian newspaper. "People may live or die on the result of a game show. It's a step too far. "I don't think this is anything to do with reality TV. It's just a crazy idea that would never play out over here." The outcry comes at a difficult time for production company Endemol, who were censured by Ofcom last week for their handling of the Celebrity Big Brother racism row. The Australian version of Big Brother has also drawn criticism for not telling a contestant that her father had died. AND AUDIO NEWS The Dutch broadcaster defends the show How reality TV shocked the world 29 Big Brother under fire 25 youth revel in pop revolution 21 Scrap Big Brother, says O'Meara 04 Feb buys Big Brother firm 14 26 Jan 06 | Magazine Science and Nature: Kidneys James Whale Fund for Kidney Cancer
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6700323.stm | Sussex | Fury around Glyndebourne turbine 29 May 2007, 10:46 GMT 11:46 around Glyndebourne turbine Glyndebourne wants to site the turbine on Mill Plain Four environment groups have united to fight plans by Glyndebourne Opera House for a 70m (230ft) wind turbine. Glyndebourne wants to site the 850kw turbine on Mill Plain, between Ringmer and Glyndebourne in East Sussex. "The position in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and National Park designate is absolutely wrong," said Dr Tony Parker of the South Downs Society. Glyndebourne says the turbine will be a "landmark" which will reduce its carbon emissions by 71%. The South Downs Society is supported by the Council for National Parks, the Campaign to Protect Rural England and the Ramblers Association. "The reason the four rural protection groups have come together is because this represents a massive detriment to the South Downs without any perceivable impact on the carbon footprint," said Dr Parker. A windmill once stood on the proposed site, on Mill Plain, but Dr Parker said the turbine would be four times higher. "To put it in context, it would be higher than the clock face on Big Ben," he said. Glyndebourne chairman, Gus Christie, said the site was surrounded by trees, which meant the sound of the turbine would not carry as far as the opera house or the village of Ringmer. "In this day and age the careful siting of these turbines is vital to show we are doing our bit to combat climate change," he said. "With the terrible consequences of global warming, it is crazy to be obstructing one single turbine in one's field of vision." The planning application will be considered by Lewes District Council in July. travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Glyndebourne plans wind turbine 05 Jan 07 | Southern Counties Campaign to Protect Rural England Council for National Parks guilty of raid at jewellers Anger as squatters wreck church Red faces at police station theft
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6709139.stm 31 May 2007, 15:31 GMT 16:31 said he was still being recognised 30 years later Tony Bastable, one of the original presenters of children's TV show Magpie, has died at the age of 62. The show was made by the newly-created Thames Televison in 1968 as a more accessible rival to what it saw as the BBC's more 'staid' Blue Peter. Bastable, with Susan Stranks and Pete Brady, fronted the show from 1968 to 1972 before becoming a TV producer. He had suffered from emphysema in recent years and died from pneumonia at East Surrey Hospital. His second wife, Anita, said:"He had very fond memories of Magpie. Looking through his papers we came across some of the old scripts. "I never thought of him as a hoarder, but these obviously meant a lot to him." Bastable also had a longstanding love of cricket and helped run a team in Surrey - called The Magpies. the 60s swing for you? 31 Cant 'best children's TV voice' 05 Apr Peter - Magpie
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6701829.stm plans 'Woolmer movie' 29 May 2007, 15:38 GMT 16:38 plans 'Woolmer movie' There is still uncertainty over how Woolmer died A Bollywood movie inspired by the late cricketer Bob Woolmer is to be made in India, according to reports. Mystery still surrounds the death of Pakistan coach Woolmer, who was found in his hotel room just hours after the team was knocked out of the World Cup. Filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, known for his sensitive and provocative human dramas, told the AFP news agency that cameras would begin to roll in August. The film is provisionally titled Jannat, which means Paradise. Bhatt said it would be a love story set against the backdrop of international cricket. "Betting and match fixing will be brought to light and there will be songs," he said. No stars have been announced but newcomer Kunal Deshmukh is pencilled in to direct, with Bhatt taking a production role. He added: "Woolmer will not be named. We are using a fictional situation, but the people will see the obvious connection." doubt cast on Woolmer murder 15 Lessons to avoid Bollywood gaffes 15 Yorkshire Bob Woolmer 'murder not proven' 08 Asia Bollywood to get own theme park 27 Apr 07 | South Asia
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6698689.stm profit' from Big Brother vote 29 May 2007, 09:52 GMT 10:52 profit' from Big Brother vote Davina McCall recently said she would host Big Brother "until I die" Channel 4 has said it will not profit from phone lines on the eighth series of Big Brother, after controversy over its handling of a previous vote. It has halved the cost of taking part in the eviction process to 25p per call, with 15p spent on administration fees and the rest going to charity. This will help to keep the process "fair and transparent", Channel 4 said. It had to scrap a poll on Celebrity Big Brother in January after a mix-up in a vote involving housemate Shilpa Shetty. An on-screen graphic invited viewers to dial in and "save" her while a voiceover gave the same number to "evict" her. There was also controversy over the bullying of the Bollywood actress during that series. And TV regulator Ofcom has ordered Channel 4 to begin the new run of Big Brother on Wednesday by broadcasting an apology for "serious errors of judgement" in its handling of the row. However, police in Hertfordshire - where the show is filmed - have denied newspaper reports that they were to continually monitor this year's show in case of further incidents of racism or violence. "Hertfordshire Constabulary is not setting up a team of officers to monitor events occurring in the Big Brother house," they said in a statement. "Hertfordshire Constabulary will continue to police eviction nights as it has throughout the series. "This is paid for by Channel 4 and Endemol, and not by public funds." In a further change to the reality show's voting process, viewers will no longer be able to participate through text messages. This is because of the lack of time during live broadcasts for mobile phone operators to count and verify the votes in the way that Channel 4 demands. And all elements of voting will be monitored by an external law firm in future. This year's Big Brother house has been given a "topsy-turvy" design "The voting has been fair and transparent throughout Big Brother's eight years on air," said Andy Taylor, the managing director of new media at Channel 4. "Given the recent focus on the use of premium-rate phone lines on TV, we want to ensure the audience has absolute confidence in the evictions, which are absolutely integral to the show's success." This year has seen a number of controversies about the way that expensive voting systems are used by broadcasters. Shows including ITV1's GMTV and The X Factor, Channel 4's Richard and Judy, and the BBC's Saturday Kitchen have been named and shamed over issues such as letting viewers enter contests which they had no chance of winning. ITV recorded a 20% drop in income from premium-rate lines in March and April over previous months, for which it blamed a drop in consumer confidence. And regulator Icstis has since introduced tougher rules for TV quiz shows, which broadcasters must follow. shows hit by TV phone-in crisis - and what is being done Phone-in confidence fall hits ITV GMTV's quiz firm admits errors TV quizzes must be made 'fairer' Reprimand for X Factor vote error Missed TV quiz texts sparks probe Regulator sets new TV quiz rules Q&A: Premium rate phone lines Wake-up call over phone scams 'I spent £9,000 on TV quiz lines'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703423.stm artist 'eats corgi' 30 May 2007, 08:00 GMT 09:00 artist 'eats corgi' The corgi was minced and cooked with apple, onion and seasoning Performance artist Mark McGowan has eaten what he claims was a cooked corgi in a protest over the Royal Family's treatment of animals. McGowan performed the stunt on London radio station Resonance FM, and shared his meal with fellow guest Yoko Ono. "To me it was, as an art piece, exhilarating," he said after the show. The artist's protest concerned the alleged mistreatment of a fox during a hunt led by Prince Philip in January. The RSPCA said the fox did not suffer. It's disgusting. It's really, really, really disgusting Mark McGowan on his dog dinner McGowan, who is a vegetarian, said he wanted his unusual meal to raise awareness about "the RSPCA's inability to prosecute Prince Philip and his friends". "We love our animals in Britain. Why is it then that we then allow people - especially people who are supposed to be ambassadors for this country - to treat animals with such disrespect?" The Queen is famously associated with corgis The corgi, which died at a breeding farm, was minced and cooked with apple, onion and seasoning. As he ate the meatballs, McGowan reported: "It's disgusting. It's really, really, really disgusting." The radio show's presenter, Bob Smith, said he was not convinced the meat came from a dog. But McGowan said: "It's stinky, it's white-looking, it's not like any meat I've ever seen." Some animal rights activists approved of the stunt. "The idea of eating a corgi will make many people lose their lunch," said Poorva Joshipura, director of the European arm of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta). "But foxes, who are hunted for so-called entertainment, are no less capable of feeling fear and pain. "Most of the British public will agree that it is high time the royals joined the rest of us who live in the 21st Century and opposed to cruelty to animals." The Royal Family has had a long association with corgi dogs. The Queen has a particular fondness for corgis, and they have the run of Buckingham Palace - even in the middle of formal state events. artist to eat corgi 29 halt artist's city lie-in 15 Nov 06 | West Midlands Artist lies down in city street 14 Nov 06 | West Midlands 'Running tap' artist to try again 19 Mar 06 | England Plug pulled on running water art 27 Jul 05 | Arts Nut reaches Downing Street 12 Sep 03 | London
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6707757.stm given to Piper and Evans 31 May 2007, 11:41 GMT 12:41 given to Piper and Evans Despite divorcing Evans and Piper remain friends Actress Billie Piper and DJ Chris Evans have been granted a divorce, nearly three years after their separation. The pair, who met when Piper appeared on Evans' TV show TFI Friday, married in Las Vegas five months later in 2001. They separated in October 2004. Evans, who is 17 years Piper's senior, famously wooed the teenage pop star with a Ferrari filled with roses, even though she could not drive at the time. Piper, 25, has insisted she will not seek any money from her ex-husband. Last year Piper revealed how she regretted not telling her parents in person about the wedding in Las Vegas, which reportedly cost £250 and was attended by six friends. Following the ceremony, the couple travelled for 18 months before returning to the UK where Piper kicked off her acting career with a role in BBC's The Canterbury Tales. She went on take a leading role in the return of Doctor Who, as the Doctor's assistant Rose Tyler. Piper was the youngest female solo artist to reach number one with her debut single, Because We Want to, in 1998. Evans has recently resurrected his radio career by winning two Sony awards for his BBC Radio 2 show. FM tops Sony Radio Awards 01 back on stage after illness 08 Mar set to refuse divorce cash 26 Jun Piper to leave Doctor Who 15 Jun launches Evans' chat show 21 Nov 05 | TV and Radio Billie Piper is Doctor Who helper 24 May 04 | TV and Radio Chris Evans - Radio 2 Drama - Billie Piper
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6703879.stm says she 'hit rock bottom' 30 May 2007, 10:25 GMT 11:25 says she 'hit rock bottom' Spears is reportedly working on a new album Pop star Britney Spears says she "truly hit rock bottom" when she went to rehab earlier this year. In a message on her website, the singer wrote that she "genuinely did not know what to do with myself" following her split from husband Kevin Federline. Spears, 25, entered a Malibu treatment facility in February after months of partying and a dramatic hair cut. Defending her behaviour, she said: "I think it is actually normal for a young girl to go out after a huge divorce". However, she denied her spell in rehab had been the result of "alcohol or depression". After completing her treatment in March, which she described as a "humbling" experience, Spears completed a divorce agreement with Federline and fired her manager Larry Rudolph. Fans grew concerned when Spears publicly shaved off her hair "I have had to cut so many people out of my life," the singer wrote on her website, adding that some of her friends had tried to take advantage of her wealth. "You never know another persons intentions or what another person wants. "I feel I was too open and looking for answers when I had it all to begin with." Spears is one of pop music's most successful artists, selling 31 million albums in the US alone. She has not released an album since her surprise marriage to Federline in November 2004, but is reported to be working on a new set of songs. In recent weeks, she has performed a series of short concerts in nightclubs around Los Angeles. The star has two children with Federline - eight-month-old Jayden James and Sean Preston, aged 20 months. The couple currently have joint custody under a temporary court order. AND AUDIO NEWS Britney Spears after having her head shaved Spears thankful for fans' prayers 18 star Spears stages comeback 02 'signs divorce settlement' 30 Mar obtains court injunction 22 Mar 'successful' rehab ends 21 Mar
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6704063.stm take box office by storm 30 May 2007, 11:47 GMT 12:47 take box office by storm The Pirates trilogy has been a huge financial success The World's End has proved a lucrative destination for the third Pirates of the Caribbean film as it debuts to the top of the UK box office. The Johnny Depp-starring adventure took £13.4m in its opening weekend, leaving previous number one Spider-Man 3 splashing in its wake with just £1.3m. Brooding fact-based thriller Zodiac (£0.6m) was at three, leading zombie sequel 28 Weeks Later (£0.5m). Other new films are Australian drama Jindabyne and Indian comedy Cheeni Kum. UK AND IRELAND TOP FIVE Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End - £13.4m Spiderman 3 - £1.3m Zodiac - £0.6m (pictured) 28 Weeks Later - £0.55m Bridge to Terabithia- £0.3m Jindabyne, an adaptation of a Raymond Carver short story on how a group of men on a fishing party react to the discovery of a girl's body, made its debut in seventh place. Immediately behind was Cheeni Kum in which an unmarried Delhi woman visiting London falls for an Indian restaurant owner old enough to be her father. ten are children's fantasy Bridge to Terabithia, British comedy Magicians and teen romance Lovewrecked. The box office goldmines are Spiderman 3, which has taken £30.5m in total, and Mr Bean's Holiday, which has made nearly £22m. The total take for the top 15 movies over the weekend was more than £17m. in Pirates' box office gold 27 top 10 fictional pirates 24 record for third Shrek 21 pictures: Pirates 3 premiere 20 Pictures Franchise fever grips Hollywood 04 sets US box office record 10 Jul of the Caribbean
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703363.stm Lohan checks into rehab 30 May 2007, 08:30 GMT 09:30 Lohan checks into rehab Lohan has already had one period in rehab this year Actress Lindsay Lohan has checked into rehab following her arrest on suspicion of driving under the influence after a car accident at the weekend. She admitted herself to an "intensive medical rehabilitation facility", according to a statement released by her publicist. Police said a "useable" amount of a substance thought to be cocaine was found in Lohan's car during her arrest. The 20-year-old has not yet been charged but is due in court in August. Lohan was arrested Saturday morning after her car mounted a kerb and hit a shrub on Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles. A police spokesman said when officers arrived at the alleged incident, both Lohan and the vehicle were no longer at the scene. The car was then traced to a nearby apartment complex. The actress has already had one stint in a rehabilitation this year, spending a month at the Promises treatment centre in Malibu. Lohan had her first hit aged 11 in The Parent Trap. She has also starred in films like Freaky Friday, Mean Girls and A Prairie Home Companion. held over 'drink driving' 27 Lohan enters rehab centre 18 Jan 'attending AA for a year' 13 Dec defended over Altman letter 01 Dec Hills Police Department
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703401.stm showing signs of recovery 30 May 2007, 08:41 GMT 09:41 showing signs of recovery Diddley is receiving speech and occupational therapy Rock 'n' roll pioneer Bo Diddley is still struggling to talk more than two weeks after he suffered a stroke. But his manager said there were some hopeful signs of recovery as he has been humming and listening to country music on the radio. The 78-year-old singer was taken ill after a concert on 13 May. The spokesman said it was too early to tell how much therapy Diddley would need or whether he would recover enough to perform again. The Grammy-winning songwriter and guitarist is in a hospital near his home in Gainesville, Florida, and has been receiving speech and occupational therapy. Manager Margo Lewis said: "His problem is only in getting out the words sometimes, and in understanding. "I think it happens more when he's tired or excited." She added that Diddley was expected to spend another two weeks in hospital. to leave intensive care 22 'responding' to treatment 18 Diddley suffers stroke 17
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6706895.stm dress sells for $192,000 31 May 2007, 08:31 GMT 09:31 dress sells for $192,000 The dress is made of silk and decorated with fan-shaped appliqués A pink cocktail dress worn by Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's has sold at auction for $192,000 (£97,233) - more than six times its estimate. The dress went under the hammer at a sale of film and entertainment memorabilia at Christie's in New York. The auction house said it had expected the dress to fetch $30,000 (£15,192). In December, a black Givenchy dress created for Hepburn as Holly Golightly in the 1961 film caused an auction frenzy, selling for £467,200. The pink cocktail dress is believed to have been a late addition to the film and was used in the scene where Golightly learns of her brother's death and smashes crockery in a fit of grief. Hepburn was nominated for a best actress Oscar for the role, but lost out to Sophia Loren in Two Women (La Ciociara). was a programme from John F Kennedy's Birthday Celebration in Madison Square Garden, New York, on May 19, 1962 - famous for Marilyn Monroe's birthday serenade - which sold for $66,000 (£33,420). Items from the estate of comedian Stan Laurel made over $100,000 (£50,600). These included his trademark bowler hats, a set of bow ties and a folder with joke ideas: "Rather be pregnant than have tooth pulled? Make up your mind lady, so I'll know which way to tilt the chair," he wrote. dress' school opens up 01 Mar 07 | South Asia Hepburn dress aids India's poor 20 Feb frenzy over Hepburn dress 05 Dec Hepburn: Why the fuss? 07 Apr 06 | Magazine Garland's dress fetches £140,000 27 Apr 05 | Film Films - Breakfast at Tiffany's Films - Audrey Hepburn profile
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6698753.stm | Europe | Poland targets 'gay' Teletubbies 28 May 2007, 15:49 GMT 16:49 targets 'gay' Teletubbies Tinky Winky was once attacked by the late US Rev Jerry Falwell A senior Polish official has ordered psychologists to investigate whether the popular BBC TV show Teletubbies promotes a homosexual lifestyle. The spokesperson for children's rights in Poland, Ewa Sowinska, singled out Tinky Winky, the purple character with a triangular aerial on his head. "I noticed he was carrying a woman's handbag," she told a magazine. "At first, I didn't realise he was a boy." EU officials have criticised Polish government policy towards homosexuals. Ms Sowinska wants the psychologists to make a recommendation about whether the children's show should be broadcast on public television. Poland's authorities have recently initiated a series of moves to outlaw the promotion of homosexuality among the nation's children. Tinky Winky's psychological evaluation is being treated fairly light-heartedly by many people here. One radio station asked its listeners to vote for the most suspicious children's show. Some e-mailed in, saying that Winnie the Pooh had only male friends. Even Ms Sowinska has backtracked a little, insisting that she does not believe the Teletubbies is a threat to the nation's children. But the evaluation is still going ahead and her office can recommend that the show should be taken off the air. Poland was criticised recently after its education ministry announced plans to sack teachers who promote homosexuality. Last month the European Union singled out Poland for criticism in its resolution condemning homophobia in the 27-member bloc. Does this make you think again about letting your children watch the Teletubbies? Tell us what you think. If you would like to take part in a radio discussion please include your phone number, it will not appear on the site. The BBC may edit your comments and cannot guarantee that all emails will be published. urged to halt 'homophobia' 26 Apr 07 | Europe Polish 'anti-gay' bill criticised 19 Mar 07 | Europe Fears of Poland's gay community 10 Jun 06 | Europe 'Gay Tinky Winky bad for children' 15 Feb 99 | Entertainment blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6700631.stm for BBC phone-in contests 29 May 2007, 12:48 GMT 13:48 for BBC phone-in contests The faked Blue Peter result was broadcast in November 2006 The BBC Trust has ordered a review of how the BBC uses premium rate phone lines after problems on two of its television shows. The BBC apologised after the results of a competition on Blue Peter were faked and Saturday Kitchen was criticised for not being clear a show was not live. The Trust accepted action was taken by the BBC but felt an independent review would help restore public confidence. An internal review has recommended tighter rules. Grave mistakes were compounded by serious errors of judgment Sir Michael Lyons, BBC Trust chairman The report from the BBC's director general found that while the vast majority of shows had used premium rate lines correctly, the exceptions had fallen "seriously" short of standards expected of the corporation. On one Blue Peter show a guest was asked to pose as a competition winner when entrants could not get through on phone lines because of a technical problem. Mark Thompson's report was particularly concerned that the incident was not referred to more senior management. It noted that the programme's editor had since moved to another role and extra training made available to staff. The mistakes on Saturday Kitchen - where viewers were encouraged to ring in to a pre-recorded show - were blamed on "loose scripting" and rules on approving scripts had been tightened. A wider review of programmes found no serious problems and no malicious intent in any procedures. However, a new system of guidelines to make sure any quizzes are appropriate and genuinely challenging is being put in place. And all "live" telephone competitions where a winner is selected within a half-hour show have been suspended. BBC Trust chairman Sir Michael Lyons said the Blue Peter errors were particularly serious. "These grave mistakes were compounded by serious errors of judgment in not referring the matter to senior management," he said. The external review, which is expected to be completed in the autumn, will be led by Ron Neil, the BBC's former director of News and Current Affairs and author of the Neil Report, which looked into reporting in the wake of the Hutton Inquiry. The BBC Trust is an independent body which oversees the work of the corporation on behalf of the licence fee payer. It replaced the governors at the beginning of 2007. shows hit by TV phone-in crisis - and what is being done Phone-in confidence fall hits ITV GMTV's quiz firm admits errors TV quizzes must be made 'fairer' Reprimand for X Factor vote error Missed TV quiz texts sparks probe Regulator sets new TV quiz rules Q&A: Premium rate phone lines Wake-up call over phone scams 'I spent £9,000 on TV quiz lines'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6701863.stm | Music site Last.fm bought by CBS 30 May 2007, 10:55 GMT 11:55 site Last.fm bought by CBS Last.fm connects users who share the same music tastes Social music site Last.fm has been bought by US media giant CBS Corporation for $280m (£140m), the largest-ever UK Web 2.0 acquisition. The online network was founded in the UK five years ago and it now has more than 15 million active users. It allows users to connect with other listeners with similar music tastes, to custom-build their own radio stations and to watch music video-clips. Last.fm founding member Martin Stiksel said it was an "exciting opportunity". Last.fm is one of the fastest growing online communities out there As part of the deal, Last.fm's managing team will remain in place and the site will maintain its own separate identity. Mr Stiksel said: "This move will really support us to get every track ever recorded and every music video ever made onto Last.fm. "With a strong partner like CBS, this is now within our reach." CBS Corporation has business interests in TV, web and radio. CBS radio is the largest radio group in the United States, with 179 stations in the top 50 markets covering news, rock, country and urban music. The firm's president and CEO Leslie Moonves said: "Last.fm is one of the fastest growing online communities out there." The web has helped revolutionise listening to music He said Last.fm's strength in building communities around music and syndicating content was "central to CBS". He added: "Their demographics also play perfectly to CBS's goal to attract younger viewers and listeners across our businesses." CBS is not the first major player to purchase up-and-coming websites for millions or even billions of dollars, prompting what some have called the second dot.com boom. In 2005 Rupert Murdoch's News Corp snapped up social networking site MySpace for $580m (£290m). And last year, search engine Google paid $1.65bn (£883m) for video site YouTube. Mr Stiksel said Last.fm would retain an independent identity. He said CBS was buying "great technology and a very vibrant, active community". "They want to move from a content company to an audience company giving the audiences control and learning from this and that's why Last.fm was their choice," he added. Being in London has helped us; it's the best place to do things with music full stop Mr Stiksel said he did not think that users would feel disappointed that a mainstream media firm had bought the site. "When we said revolution we mean that - we put the users in charge. CBS gets this. "They understand that consuming media is changing, the patterns are changing." As part of the acquisition, the Last.fm management team, including founders Felix Miller, Martin Stiksel and Richard Jones, will continue to independently run the online network Mr Stiksel said the deal proved that Web 2.0 companies did not have to be in the United States to succeed. "Being in London has helped us; it's the best place to do things with music full stop. It's the place that leads the world." The three founders will now be among the most successful - and potentially wealthy - Web 2.0 pioneers in the world. Mr Stiksel said: "The success of the site is the most important thing. With a strong partner we can add the features we always dreamed about." AND AUDIO NEWS How Last.fm became an internet success 'Fatal' blow to web broadcasters 17 Apr 07 | Technology Will digital kill the radio star? 19 Feb 07 | Technology Web users driving change in 2007 01 Jan 07 | Technology Time lists 50 'coolest websites' 15 Aug 06 | Technology Web apps tracking users attention 22 Feb 07 | Technology TV to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6707483.stm 5 crowns US album charts 31 May 2007, 10:31 GMT 11:31 5 crowns US album charts The Californian band are also top of the US singles chart US band Maroon 5's first album in four years is leading the US charts, putting it top on both sides of the Atlantic. It Won't Be Soon Before Long sold more than 400,000 copies in the US, leaving last week's leader Linkin Park's Minutes To Midnight a distant second. The album sold 102,000 copies through download sales alone, breaking a record set just last week by Linkin Park. Rocker Ozzy Osbourne's Black Rain - his first release in six years - went in at three, with sales of 152,000. Maroon 5 are currently dominating the charts, with Makes Me Wonder also at the top of the US singles chart, in addition to the album entering at number one in the UK last weekend. Their last album, Songs about Jane, contained two UK top five hits - This Love and She Will be Loved. Makes Me Wonder is presently at number two in the UK. Album sales in the US were down 3.2% from last week's total, and down 16.7% compared to the same week last year. holds fast at number one 27 album cracks US top 10 03 music bucks US sales fall - for now 16 Apr 07 | Business US CD sales drop 20% in one year 23 Mar
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6699675.stm plans Potter purchase as PM 29 May 2007, 07:22 GMT 08:22 plans Potter purchase as PM Mr Brown said summer was the best time for reading novels Gordon Brown has revealed that one of his first acts as prime minister will be to read the final Harry Potter book. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is published on 21 July, just three weeks after Mr Brown succeeds Tony Blair. Westminster commentators are predicting a flurry of political activity, but Mr Brown told BBC Radio 4 he had already drawn up a summer reading list. Mr Brown has called JK Rowling's books Britain's "greatest export", and says he wants his sons to read them one day. Both are still too young to read the novels. John is three, while Fraser celebrates his first birthday a day after the final Potter is published. Mr Brown was speaking to the Today programme from the Hay-On-Wye literary festival, where he is promoting his own book, Courage, about his personal heroes. "This summer, I think (I will read) Thomas Keneally, who's just brought out a new book which is about war and heroes," he said. "I will probably want to dip into JK Rowling, hoping that is something my sons will want to read later. "And I suspect I will have a look at Al Gore's book." Gore's polemic, The Assault on Reason, presents a critical assessment of the US Government's approach to policy-making. "I think reading, in the literal sense, broadens the mind," Mr Brown added. "It opens up to you ideas and themes and vistas that you otherwise would never really grasp. "Summer is the best time to read books." Mr Brown is set to become party leader and prime minister on 27 June. child matters,' says Brown 26 Beware 'spoilers', warns Rowling 14 named top for Potter-mania 09 Postal plan begins on Potter book 28 Dec praises Potter books 14 Jul 05 | Arts Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq 27 Bloomsbury - Harry Potter site
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6708449.stm rally round for Lohan 31 May 2007, 14:42 GMT 15:42 rally round for Lohan Lohan is back in rehab for the second time this year Producers of actress Lindsay Lohan's forthcoming film are re-working the schedule so the star can film her role when she has completed rehab. The 20-year-old, who was due to begin shooting Poor Things this week, sought treatment after being arrested following a car crash at the weekend. Police said they found a substance thought to be cocaine in her car. Co-star and producer Shirley MacLaine said "in the spirit of helping" Lohan, they were trying to re-arrange filming. "We wish her love and the blending of mind, body and spirit," the statement added. Lohan was arrested on Saturday after her car mounted a kerb on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles. She was not charged, but is due to appear in court in August. It is not the first time the star's personal life has caused problems with her film career. Last July, studio executive James G Robinson went public with a letter to Lohan, scolding her for repeatedly showing up late on the set of Georgia Rule. He called her behaviour "discourteous, irresponsible and unprofessional", and cited her "ongoing all-night heavy partying" as the reason for her tardiness. It is the second time the star has checked into rehab this year. She spent a month at the Promises treatment centre in Malibu in January. Lohan checks into rehab 30 held over 'drink driving' 27 Lohan enters rehab centre 18 Jan 'attending AA for a year' 13 Dec mother responds to rebuke 31 Jul
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6705789.stm Les Battersby to leave 30 May 2007, 17:10 GMT 18:10 Les Battersby to leave Bruce Jones was suspended from the soap in March Coronation Street actor Bruce Jones, who plays the soap's Les Battersby, will not return to the soap following his suspension. The 54-year-old was suspended over allegations he insulted fans during a drunken trip to a restaurant in March. The soap's producer, Steve Frost, said: "After 10 great years we feel we have reached the end of the road with storylines for Les." Jones said he has had a "fantastic time" but wants to move on. "I have already had some very exciting offers and am looking forward to what the future holds," he said. The character will not be seen back on screen, but ITV has yet to decide how the character's absence will be explained. In a statement, ITV said: "It is likely to be linked to the departure of his wife Cilla - actress Wendi Peters had already decided to leave the show in September at the end of her current contract." At the moment Les is travelling as a roadie for a tribute band. The News of the World claimed the actor launched a foul-mouth tirade at the Old Rectory restaurant in Stockport, Greater Manchester. It was reported he insulted fans and discussed future storylines. Jones is understood to deny the newspaper allegations strenuously. The Battersby family arrived on the street in June 1997, immediately making an impact as the "family from hell". wins seven at soap awards 26 Street actor suspended 27 Mar torture complaints rejected 12 Mar 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Street star banned from driving 19 Jan 07 | Manchester Charles back on Coronation Street 11 Jan
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703019.stm at Spector house 'homicide' 30 May 2007, 08:20 GMT 09:20 at Spector house 'homicide' Dr Pena indicated the path of the bullet that killed Clarkson US actress Lana Clarkson's death was a homicide, a coroner has told the murder trial of music producer Phil Spector. Dr Louis Pena said bruising suggested the barrel of a gun may have been forced into Ms Clarkson's mouth before she was fatally shot in 2003. Ms Clarkson was a hopeful person with no history of depression or suicide attempts, he told the court. Mr Spector, 67, is accused of killing Ms Clarkson at his Hollywood mansion. The defence says she shot herself. It says she placed the gun in her mouth and pulled the trigger. Dr Pena also told the court that there were bruises on Ms Clarkson's right arm and wrist but could not confirm the cause of the marks. Referring to the bruise on her tongue, he said it was "very unique and is consistent with blunt-force trauma. Something struck the tongue". Dr Pena said there was no evidence that Ms Clarkson had been preparing to kill herself and that she died with a purse on one shoulder, which, he said, was not typical of a suicide. "I found her to be a hopeful person from the notes I read," he said. Ms Clarkson had been taking two drugs generally given for depression at the time of her death, but her neurologist had prescribed them for her chronic headaches, Dr Pena said. Lawyers for Mr Spector say Clarkson killed herself In cross-examination, Mr Spector's lawyer Christopher Plourd sought to show that the coroner had relied heavily on the work of others in analysing the forensic evidence. Dr Pena conceded he was not an expert in gunshot residue or blood spatter and acknowledged he consulted textbooks in coming to his conclusions. Mr Spector pioneered the "Wall of Sound" recording technique in the 60s, working with stars such as The Beatles, Tina Turner and The Righteous Brothers. He is accused of killing is Ms Clarkson, 40, on 3 February 2003, hours after meeting her at the Sunset Strip nightclub House of Blues where she worked. If convicted, Mr Spector faces between 15 years and life in prison. SPECTOR ON TRIAL Listen to the renowned Spector sound as the pop pioneer faces trial Spector driver testimony queried Spector 'made killing admission' Producer 'was not his usual self' Murder trial hears gun claims Spector ex-lawyer 'took evidence' Spector's ex tells of gun threats Phil Spector: Pop innovator Lana Clarkson: B-movie actress Music legend faces media circus Phil Spector denies murder Pop legend charged with murder
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK of the London stage version of Lord of the Rings are cancelled after a cast member is injured. The West End meets Middle-earth Audition offers shortcut to fame Rings musical unveils London cast Bastable, one of the original presenters of children's TV show Magpie, dies aged 62. signs will allow the website's users to use music videos by EMI artists. 6m watch Big Brother launch Divorce given to Piper and Evans BBC Salford move gets go-ahead Film-makers rally round for Lohan A first hearing for Elgar's last Hepburn dress sells for $192,000 ALSO IN THE NEWS It could be magic - Exhibition looks at what happened when Dali met Disney How the TV industry is being altered by the 'record' button Should reality TV shows be vetted for ethical treatment? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS First concert for 'lost' Elgar piece Jackson items under hammer Theme park for Potter fans UK music site sold for £140m More Video / Audio News Entertainment news and gossip Pirates take box office by storm Actress Lohan checks into rehab Death at Spector house 'homicide' Bollywood plans 'Woolmer movie' Maroon 5 crowns US album charts Timberlake launches record label Spears says she 'hit rock bottom' Michael 'was on drugs', court told Music site Last.fm bought by CBS Street's Les Battersby to leave Outcry over TV kidney contest Review for BBC phone-in contests 'No profit' from Big Brother vote Poland targets 'gay' Teletubbies Performance artist 'eats corgi' Chancellor plans Potter purchase Festival Hall face-lift unveiled Fury over Glyndebourne turbine What do you think about plans for a Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Michael 'was on drugs' court told Outcry over TV kidney competition Romanian drama wins Cannes gold The Jacksons prepare to sell 1,100 items of showbiz memorabilia Westwood and wellies are the fashion for the Hay festival FROM OTHER BBC SITES Johnny Depp on Pirates of the Caribbean's return ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6699699.stm | London | Festival Hall face-lift unveiled 29 May 2007, 09:26 GMT 10:26 Hall face-lift unveiled The renovated Royal Festival Hall will reopen next week The multi-million pound transformation of the Royal Festival Hall on London's South Bank has been unveiled. The £91m two-year project has restored the Grade I listed building to its former glory. The 2,788-seater auditorium now has upgraded acoustics, under-seat air conditioning and increased leg-room. To mark the opening 24,000 free tickets will be handed out for performances on 9 and 10 June ahead of the First Night Gala Concert the following Monday. Massed choirs will arrive by candlelit river boat for the opening celebrations on 8 June. The public will be invited to take part in The Overture as well as enjoy performances by dancers and musicians. As part of the revamp staff and production facilities have been moved into a new extension building, creating more space in the hall for public use. Interval bars have doubled in size and outdoor balconies now provide panoramic views of the river Thames. Clive Hollick, chairman of the Southbank Centre, said: "The Royal Festival Hall holds a unique place in the cultural life of this great city." Adding her support Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said: "It is wonderful that one of London's brightest stars is back and ready for business. "It does brilliantly and simply what many people in the cultural sector aim to do - ensuring that world-class events are enjoyed by as many people as possible, in a fantastic and inspirational setting." AND AUDIO NEWS The new look royal festival hall is opened to the public Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Arts venue unveils £90m revamp 20 Apr 04 | Arts Lottery boost for Festival Hall 09 Oct 02 | England Festival Hall plan gets go-ahead 06 Mar 02 | Arts Festival Hall celebrates birthday 03 May 01 | Music Concert halls' capital celebrations 26 Mar 01 | Music and search powers 'damaging'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6707115.stm launches record label 31 May 2007, 09:23 GMT 10:23 launches record label Timberlake's first two solo albums have sold more than 13m copies US pop star Justin Timberlake has joined forces with a rival music company to launch his own record label. The SexyBack singer will sign artists and release their music through Tennman Records, a joint venture with Interscope Records. Timberlake will serve as chairman and chief executive, a statement said. He said: "We are all excited about the talent we have to offer already... and I cannot wait to introduce the world to my new discoveries." Day-to-day operations will be handled by Ken Komisar, a former vice-president at Sony BMG Music Entertainment, who was named president of Tennman. Timberlake's first two solo albums - 2002's Justified and last year's FutureSex/LoveSounds - have sold more than 13 million copies combined. adds new stop to tour 24 Mar Timberlake refused honour 22 Mar and Timberlake confirm split 12 Jan
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6707791.stm 31 May 2007, 12:49 GMT 13:49 show has a cast of 50 actors and acrobats Performances of the London stage version of the Lord of the Rings have been suspended after a cast member was injured during the show. One of the actors is believed to have caught his leg in the moving stage during an early scene. The individual was not one of the lead actors, but the show was halted and the audience offered refunds. Performances are due to resume on Saturday. The £8m musical is currently previewing and officially opens on 19 June. The set involves a large hydraulic stage which can revolve, and be raised or lowered in sections. Audience member Tori Lowe said: "The hobbits were on stage and had a group of dancers dressed as rangers with them. "There was suddenly a lot of screaming, but at first we thought it might be part of the show. "But a stagehand came runnning on, and when the music stopped we could hear someone shouting 'My leg! My leg!'." In a statement, the producers said they were "looking at modifying the staging" so previews could resume. The three-hour production, at the Theatre Royal Drury Lane, has a cast of 50 actors and acrobats. It has undergone a major rewrite since closing just six months after its premiere in Toronto last year. West End meets Middle-earth 09 flock for 'new' Tolkien book 17 Apr musical unveils London cast 15 Jan audition offers shortcut to fame 18 Sep Lord of the Rings
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6703721.stm 'was on drugs' court told 31 May 2007, 07:32 GMT 08:32 UK 'was on drugs' court told Michael is currently touring Europe Pop star George Michael had a cocktail of drugs in his system when he was arrested in his car last year, a London court has heard. The singer, whose real name is George Panayitou, has admitted driving while unfit, but says his condition was due to "tiredness and prescribed drugs". The 43-year-old was arrested in October 2006 after motorists reported a driver slumped over the wheel of a Mercedes at traffic lights in north London. Sentencing has been put back to 8 June. Prosecutor Andrew Torrington told Brent Magistrates' Court in north London that tests showed a therapeutic quantity of an anti-depressant in the singer's system as well as the illegal dance club drug GHB. Cannabis was also found in his blood, but the prosecution do not maintain that this was the cause of his intoxication. Michael (left) began his pop career as a member of Wham! The star's lawyer claimed a sleeping drug was the most likely explanation for his condition. He also told the court it was common for traces of GHB to be found in the blood even if the drug had not been taken. Prosecutors agreed that, while GHB is a banned class C drug, its effects could be created by other substances which are not controlled, including a drug called GBL. District Judge Katherine Marshall said the issue at stake was not the drug involved, but the condition Mr Michael was in when he was discovered in his car in October last year. The BBC's Ben Ando, who was at the hearing, said it was made clear that the star could expect to be sentenced at the "upper end of the scale for this offence". Mr Michael, who was not present, has already pleaded guilty to driving while unfit under the influence of drugs, which carries a maximum penalty of six months in jail. At a court appearance earlier this month, the former Wham! frontman addressed District Judge Katherine Marshall directly, saying: "I did something very stupid and I am very ashamed since doing it. "I'm not used to defending myself in a position where I am ashamed of something." He added: "I really have been very distressed by this whole thing. I am perfectly aware that I did something very wrong and got into my car when I was unfit to drive." Since his court appearance, Mr Michael has revealed he is addicted to prescription drugs and believes the world would be a better place if more people smoked marijuana. He will attend Brent Magistrates' Court to receive his sentence on 8 June, one day before he performs the first concert at the new Wembley stadium. After the hearing Michael said in a statement: "I have accepted throughout this affair that I was not in a fit state to have been driving a motor vehicle in the early hours of 1 October 2006 and accordingly pleaded guilty to the charge of driving whilst unfit through drink or drugs before Brent Magistrates' Court on 8 May 2007. "I am delighted that at today's hearing the court accepted that the proper approach to my case is that which I have always maintained, in that I was unfit through a combination of tiredness and prescribed drugs, and that I will be sentenced on this basis. "I would like to conclude by saying I am really looking forward to playing Wembley Stadium on 9 and 10 June." AND AUDIO NEWS George Michael's previous court appearance Michael defends cannabis smoking 19 admits drug-drive charge 08 court hearing for Michael 25 Apr adds fresh Wembley date 09 Mar musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6699847.stm over TV kidney competition 29 May 2007, 10:44 GMT 11:44 UK over TV kidney competition The show comes from Big Brother creators Endemol A Dutch TV station says it will go ahead with a programme in which a terminally ill woman selects one of three patients to receive her kidneys. Political parties have called for The Big Donor Show to be scrapped, but broadcaster BNN says it will highlight the country's shortage of organ donors. "It's a crazy idea," said Joop Atsma, of the ruling Christian Democrat Party. "It can't be possible that, in the Netherlands, people vote about who's getting a kidney," he told the BBC. The programme, from Big Brother creators Endemol, is due to be screened on Friday night. Specialists in kidney transplants have condemned the programme The 37-year-old donor, identified only as Lisa, will make her choice based on the contestants' history, profile and conversation with their family and friends. Viewers will also be able to send in their advice by text message during the 80-minute show. The Dutch donor authority has condemned the show, as have kidney specialists in the UK. "The scenario portrayed in this programme is ethically totally unacceptable," said Professor John Feehally, who has just ended his term as president of the UK's Renal Association. "The show will not further understanding of transplants," he added. "Instead it will cause confusion and anxiety." I thought organ recipients were chosen on who is the closest match, not who the donor likes the most Steve Davies, Romford, UK Send us your comments Professor Feehally also pointed out that, under normal circumstances, two people would benefit from a donor, each receiving one kidney. "The set up of the programme bears no relationship to the way decisions are made about transplants in the real world," he said. "Living donors can choose altruistically to give one of their kidneys - usually to a family member. "If organs become available after someone dies, health professionals with access to detailed information about those waiting for a transplant make objective decisions about who should receive those particular kidneys." BNN chairman Laurens Drillich has defended the show The former director of TV station BNN, Bart de Graaff, died from kidney failure aged 35 after spending years on a transplant waiting list. "The chance for a kidney for the contestants is 33%," said the station's current chairman, Laurens Drillich. "This is much higher than that for people on a waiting list." "We think that is disastrous, so we are acting in a shocking way to bring attention to this problem." "For years and years we have had problems in the Netherlands with organ donations and especially kidney donations," agreed Alexander Pechtold of D-66, the Dutch social liberal party. "You can have a discussion about if this is distasteful, but finally we have a public debate," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. TV critics in the UK have expressed horror at the programme, but said such a show would be unlikely in Britain. "My first reaction, probably everyone's reaction, is that this is as dangerously near as we've got to a TV programme playing God," said Julia Raeside of the Guardian newspaper. "People may live or die on the result of a game show. It's a step too far. "I don't think this is anything to do with reality TV. It's just a crazy idea that would never play out over here." The outcry comes at a difficult time for production company Endemol, who were censured by Ofcom last week for their handling of the Celebrity Big Brother racism row. The Australian version of Big Brother has also drawn criticism for not telling a contestant that her father had died. AND AUDIO NEWS The Dutch broadcaster defends the show How reality TV shocked the world 29 Big Brother under fire 25 youth revel in pop revolution 21 Scrap Big Brother, says O'Meara 04 Feb buys Big Brother firm 14 26 Jan 06 | Magazine Science and Nature: Kidneys James Whale Fund for Kidney Cancer The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6700323.stm | Sussex | Fury around Glyndebourne turbine 29 May 2007, 10:46 GMT 11:46 UK around Glyndebourne turbine Glyndebourne wants to site the turbine on Mill Plain Four environment groups have united to fight plans by Glyndebourne Opera House for a 70m (230ft) wind turbine. Glyndebourne wants to site the 850kw turbine on Mill Plain, between Ringmer and Glyndebourne in East Sussex. "The position in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and National Park designate is absolutely wrong," said Dr Tony Parker of the South Downs Society. Glyndebourne says the turbine will be a "landmark" which will reduce its carbon emissions by 71%. The South Downs Society is supported by the Council for National Parks, the Campaign to Protect Rural England and the Ramblers Association. "The reason the four rural protection groups have come together is because this represents a massive detriment to the South Downs without any perceivable impact on the carbon footprint," said Dr Parker. A windmill once stood on the proposed site, on Mill Plain, but Dr Parker said the turbine would be four times higher. "To put it in context, it would be higher than the clock face on Big Ben," he said. Glyndebourne chairman, Gus Christie, said the site was surrounded by trees, which meant the sound of the turbine would not carry as far as the opera house or the village of Ringmer. "In this day and age the careful siting of these turbines is vital to show we are doing our bit to combat climate change," he said. "With the terrible consequences of global warming, it is crazy to be obstructing one single turbine in one's field of vision." The planning application will be considered by Lewes District Council in July. travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Glyndebourne plans wind turbine 05 Jan 07 | Southern Counties Campaign to Protect Rural England Council for National Parks The robber found guilty Anger as squatters wreck church Red faces at police station theft Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6709139.stm Magpie host Bastable dies 31 May 2007, 15:31 GMT 16:31 UK Magpie host Bastable dies Bastable said he was still being recognised 30 years later Tony Bastable, one of the original presenters of children's TV show Magpie, has died at the age of 62. The show was made by the newly-created Thames Televison in 1968 as a more accessible rival to what it saw as the BBC's more 'staid' Blue Peter. Bastable, with Susan Stranks and Pete Brady, fronted the show from 1968 to 1972 before becoming a TV producer. He had suffered from emphysema in recent years and died from pneumonia at East Surrey Hospital. His second wife, Anita, said:"He had very fond memories of Magpie. Looking through his papers we came across some of the old scripts. "I never thought of him as a hoarder, but these obviously meant a lot to him." Bastable also had a longstanding love of cricket and helped run a team in Surrey - called The Magpies. the 60s swing for you? 31 Cant 'best children's TV voice' 05 Apr Peter - Magpie The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6701829.stm plans 'Woolmer movie' 29 May 2007, 15:38 GMT 16:38 UK plans 'Woolmer movie' There is still uncertainty over how Woolmer died A Bollywood movie inspired by the late cricketer Bob Woolmer is to be made in India, according to reports. Mystery still surrounds the death of Pakistan coach Woolmer, who was found in his hotel room just hours after the team was knocked out of the World Cup. Filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt, known for his sensitive and provocative human dramas, told the AFP news agency that cameras would begin to roll in August. The film is provisionally titled Jannat, which means Paradise. Bhatt said it would be a love story set against the backdrop of international cricket. "Betting and match fixing will be brought to light and there will be songs," he said. No stars have been announced but newcomer Kunal Deshmukh is pencilled in to direct, with Bhatt taking a production role. He added: "Woolmer will not be named. We are using a fictional situation, but the people will see the obvious connection." doubt cast on Woolmer murder 15 Lessons to avoid Bollywood gaffes 15 Yorkshire Bob Woolmer 'murder not proven' 08 Asia Bollywood to get own theme park 27 Apr 07 | South Asia Rings musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6698689.stm profit' from Big Brother vote 29 May 2007, 09:52 GMT 10:52 UK profit' from Big Brother vote Davina McCall recently said she would host Big Brother "until I die" Channel 4 has said it will not profit from phone lines on the eighth series of Big Brother, after controversy over its handling of a previous vote. It has halved the cost of taking part in the eviction process to 25p per call, with 15p spent on administration fees and the rest going to charity. This will help to keep the process "fair and transparent", Channel 4 said. It had to scrap a poll on Celebrity Big Brother in January after a mix-up in a vote involving housemate Shilpa Shetty. An on-screen graphic invited viewers to dial in and "save" her while a voiceover gave the same number to "evict" her. There was also controversy over the bullying of the Bollywood actress during that series. And TV regulator Ofcom has ordered Channel 4 to begin the new run of Big Brother on Wednesday by broadcasting an apology for "serious errors of judgement" in its handling of the row. However, police in Hertfordshire - where the show is filmed - have denied newspaper reports that they were to continually monitor this year's show in case of further incidents of racism or violence. "Hertfordshire Constabulary is not setting up a team of officers to monitor events occurring in the Big Brother house," they said in a statement. "Hertfordshire Constabulary will continue to police eviction nights as it has throughout the series. "This is paid for by Channel 4 and Endemol, and not by public funds." In a further change to the reality show's voting process, viewers will no longer be able to participate through text messages. This is because of the lack of time during live broadcasts for mobile phone operators to count and verify the votes in the way that Channel 4 demands. And all elements of voting will be monitored by an external law firm in future. This year's Big Brother house has been given a "topsy-turvy" design "The voting has been fair and transparent throughout Big Brother's eight years on air," said Andy Taylor, the managing director of new media at Channel 4. "Given the recent focus on the use of premium-rate phone lines on TV, we want to ensure the audience has absolute confidence in the evictions, which are absolutely integral to the show's success." This year has seen a number of controversies about the way that expensive voting systems are used by broadcasters. Shows including ITV1's GMTV and The X Factor, Channel 4's Richard and Judy, and the BBC's Saturday Kitchen have been named and shamed over issues such as letting viewers enter contests which they had no chance of winning. ITV recorded a 20% drop in income from premium-rate lines in March and April over previous months, for which it blamed a drop in consumer confidence. And regulator Icstis has since introduced tougher rules for TV quiz shows, which broadcasters must follow. shows hit by TV phone-in crisis - and what is being done Phone-in confidence fall hits ITV GMTV's quiz firm admits errors TV quizzes must be made 'fairer' Reprimand for X Factor vote error Missed TV quiz texts sparks probe Regulator sets new TV quiz rules Q&A: Premium rate phone lines Wake-up call over phone scams 'I spent £9,000 on TV quiz lines' The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703423.stm artist 'eats corgi' 30 May 2007, 08:00 GMT 09:00 UK artist 'eats corgi' The corgi was minced and cooked with apple, onion and seasoning Performance artist Mark McGowan has eaten what he claims was a cooked corgi in a protest over the Royal Family's treatment of animals. McGowan performed the stunt on London radio station Resonance FM, and shared his meal with fellow guest Yoko Ono. "To me it was, as an art piece, exhilarating," he said after the show. The artist's protest concerned the alleged mistreatment of a fox during a hunt led by Prince Philip in January. The RSPCA said the fox did not suffer. It's disgusting. It's really, really, really disgusting Mark McGowan on his dog dinner McGowan, who is a vegetarian, said he wanted his unusual meal to raise awareness about "the RSPCA's inability to prosecute Prince Philip and his friends". "We love our animals in Britain. Why is it then that we then allow people - especially people who are supposed to be ambassadors for this country - to treat animals with such disrespect?" The Queen is famously associated with corgis The corgi, which died at a breeding farm, was minced and cooked with apple, onion and seasoning. As he ate the meatballs, McGowan reported: "It's disgusting. It's really, really, really disgusting." The radio show's presenter, Bob Smith, said he was not convinced the meat came from a dog. But McGowan said: "It's stinky, it's white-looking, it's not like any meat I've ever seen." Some animal rights activists approved of the stunt. "The idea of eating a corgi will make many people lose their lunch," said Poorva Joshipura, director of the European arm of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (Peta). "But foxes, who are hunted for so-called entertainment, are no less capable of feeling fear and pain. "Most of the British public will agree that it is high time the royals joined the rest of us who live in the 21st Century and opposed to cruelty to animals." The Royal Family has had a long association with corgi dogs. The Queen has a particular fondness for corgis, and they have the run of Buckingham Palace - even in the middle of formal state events. artist to eat corgi 29 halt artist's city lie-in 15 Nov 06 | West Midlands Artist lies down in city street 14 Nov 06 | West Midlands 'Running tap' artist to try again 19 Mar 06 | England Plug pulled on running water art 27 Jul 05 | Arts Nut reaches Downing Street 12 Sep 03 | London The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6707757.stm given to Piper and Evans 31 May 2007, 11:41 GMT 12:41 UK given to Piper and Evans Despite divorcing Evans and Piper remain friends Actress Billie Piper and DJ Chris Evans have been granted a divorce, nearly three years after their separation. The pair, who met when Piper appeared on Evans' TV show TFI Friday, married in Las Vegas five months later in 2001. They separated in October 2004. Evans, who is 17 years Piper's senior, famously wooed the teenage pop star with a Ferrari filled with roses, even though she could not drive at the time. Piper, 25, has insisted she will not seek any money from her ex-husband. Last year Piper revealed how she regretted not telling her parents in person about the wedding in Las Vegas, which reportedly cost £250 and was attended by six friends. Following the ceremony, the couple travelled for 18 months before returning to the UK where Piper kicked off her acting career with a role in BBC's The Canterbury Tales. She went on take a leading role in the return of Doctor Who, as the Doctor's assistant Rose Tyler. Piper was the youngest female solo artist to reach number one with her debut single, Because We Want to, in 1998. Evans has recently resurrected his radio career by winning two Sony awards for his BBC Radio 2 show. FM tops Sony Radio Awards 01 back on stage after illness 08 Mar set to refuse divorce cash 26 Jun Piper to leave Doctor Who 15 Jun launches Evans' chat show 21 Nov 05 | TV and Radio Billie Piper is Doctor Who helper 24 May 04 | TV and Radio Chris Evans - Radio 2 Drama - Billie Piper Rings musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6703879.stm says she 'hit rock bottom' 30 May 2007, 10:25 GMT 11:25 UK says she 'hit rock bottom' Spears is reportedly working on a new album Pop star Britney Spears says she "truly hit rock bottom" when she went to rehab earlier this year. In a message on her website, the singer wrote that she "genuinely did not know what to do with myself" following her split from husband Kevin Federline. Spears, 25, entered a Malibu treatment facility in February after months of partying and a dramatic hair cut. Defending her behaviour, she said: "I think it is actually normal for a young girl to go out after a huge divorce". However, she denied her spell in rehab had been the result of "alcohol or depression". After completing her treatment in March, which she described as a "humbling" experience, Spears completed a divorce agreement with Federline and fired her manager Larry Rudolph. Fans grew concerned when Spears publicly shaved off her hair "I have had to cut so many people out of my life," the singer wrote on her website, adding that some of her friends had tried to take advantage of her wealth. "You never know another persons intentions or what another person wants. "I feel I was too open and looking for answers when I had it all to begin with." Spears is one of pop music's most successful artists, selling 31 million albums in the US alone. She has not released an album since her surprise marriage to Federline in November 2004, but is reported to be working on a new set of songs. In recent weeks, she has performed a series of short concerts in nightclubs around Los Angeles. The star has two children with Federline - eight-month-old Jayden James and Sean Preston, aged 20 months. The couple currently have joint custody under a temporary court order. AND AUDIO NEWS Britney Spears after having her head shaved Spears thankful for fans' prayers 18 star Spears stages comeback 02 'signs divorce settlement' 30 Mar obtains court injunction 22 Mar 'successful' rehab ends 21 Mar musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6704063.stm take box office by storm 30 May 2007, 11:47 GMT 12:47 UK take box office by storm The Pirates trilogy has been a huge financial success The World's End has proved a lucrative destination for the third Pirates of the Caribbean film as it debuts to the top of the UK box office. The Johnny Depp-starring adventure took £13.4m in its opening weekend, leaving previous number one Spider-Man 3 splashing in its wake with just £1.3m. Brooding fact-based thriller Zodiac (£0.6m) was at three, leading zombie sequel 28 Weeks Later (£0.5m). Other new films are Australian drama Jindabyne and Indian comedy Cheeni Kum. UK AND IRELAND TOP FIVE Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End - £13.4m Spiderman 3 - £1.3m Zodiac - £0.6m (pictured) 28 Weeks Later - £0.55m Bridge to Terabithia- £0.3m Jindabyne, an adaptation of a Raymond Carver short story on how a group of men on a fishing party react to the discovery of a girl's body, made its debut in seventh place. Immediately behind was Cheeni Kum in which an unmarried Delhi woman visiting London falls for an Indian restaurant owner old enough to be her father. ten are children's fantasy Bridge to Terabithia, British comedy Magicians and teen romance Lovewrecked. The box office goldmines are Spiderman 3, which has taken £30.5m in total, and Mr Bean's Holiday, which has made nearly £22m. The total take for the top 15 movies over the weekend was more than £17m. in Pirates' box office gold 27 top 10 fictional pirates 24 record for third Shrek 21 pictures: Pirates 3 premiere 20 Pictures Franchise fever grips Hollywood 04 sets US box office record 10 Jul of the Caribbean The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703363.stm Lohan checks into rehab 30 May 2007, 08:30 GMT 09:30 UK Lohan checks into rehab Lohan has already had one period in rehab this year Actress Lindsay Lohan has checked into rehab following her arrest on suspicion of driving under the influence after a car accident at the weekend. She admitted herself to an "intensive medical rehabilitation facility", according to a statement released by her publicist. Police said a "useable" amount of a substance thought to be cocaine was found in Lohan's car during her arrest. The 20-year-old has not yet been charged but is due in court in August. Lohan was arrested Saturday morning after her car mounted a kerb and hit a shrub on Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles. A police spokesman said when officers arrived at the alleged incident, both Lohan and the vehicle were no longer at the scene. The car was then traced to a nearby apartment complex. The actress has already had one stint in a rehabilitation this year, spending a month at the Promises treatment centre in Malibu. Lohan had her first hit aged 11 in The Parent Trap. She has also starred in films like Freaky Friday, Mean Girls and A Prairie Home Companion. held over 'drink driving' 27 Lohan enters rehab centre 18 Jan 'attending AA for a year' 13 Dec defended over Altman letter 01 Dec Hills Police Department The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6705789.stm Les Battersby to leave 30 May 2007, 17:10 GMT 18:10 UK Les Battersby to leave Bruce Jones was suspended from the soap in March Coronation Street actor Bruce Jones, who plays the soap's Les Battersby, will not return to the soap following his suspension. The 54-year-old was suspended over allegations he insulted fans during a drunken trip to a restaurant in March. The soap's producer, Steve Frost, said: "After 10 great years we feel we have reached the end of the road with storylines for Les." Jones said he has had a "fantastic time" but wants to move on. "I have already had some very exciting offers and am looking forward to what the future holds," he said. The character will not be seen back on screen, but ITV has yet to decide how the character's absence will be explained. In a statement, ITV said: "It is likely to be linked to the departure of his wife Cilla - actress Wendi Peters had already decided to leave the show in September at the end of her current contract." At the moment Les is travelling as a roadie for a tribute band. The News of the World claimed the actor launched a foul-mouth tirade at the Old Rectory restaurant in Stockport, Greater Manchester. It was reported he insulted fans and discussed future storylines. Jones is understood to deny the newspaper allegations strenuously. The Battersby family arrived on the street in June 1997, immediately making an impact as the "family from hell". wins seven at soap awards 26 Street actor suspended 27 Mar torture complaints rejected 12 Mar 'encourage teen drinking' 10 Mar 07 | Health Street star banned from driving 19 Jan 07 | Manchester Charles back on Coronation Street 11 Jan musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6706895.stm dress sells for $192,000 31 May 2007, 08:31 GMT 09:31 UK dress sells for $192,000 The dress is made of silk and decorated with fan-shaped appliqués A pink cocktail dress worn by Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany's has sold at auction for $192,000 (£97,233) - more than six times its estimate. The dress went under the hammer at a sale of film and entertainment memorabilia at Christie's in New York. The auction house said it had expected the dress to fetch $30,000 (£15,192). In December, a black Givenchy dress created for Hepburn as Holly Golightly in the 1961 film caused an auction frenzy, selling for £467,200. The pink cocktail dress is believed to have been a late addition to the film and was used in the scene where Golightly learns of her brother's death and smashes crockery in a fit of grief. Hepburn was nominated for a best actress Oscar for the role, but lost out to Sophia Loren in Two Women (La Ciociara). was a programme from John F Kennedy's Birthday Celebration in Madison Square Garden, New York, on May 19, 1962 - famous for Marilyn Monroe's birthday serenade - which sold for $66,000 (£33,420). Items from the estate of comedian Stan Laurel made over $100,000 (£50,600). These included his trademark bowler hats, a set of bow ties and a folder with joke ideas: "Rather be pregnant than have tooth pulled? Make up your mind lady, so I'll know which way to tilt the chair," he wrote. dress' school opens up 01 Mar 07 | South Asia Hepburn dress aids India's poor 20 Feb frenzy over Hepburn dress 05 Dec Hepburn: Why the fuss? 07 Apr 06 | Magazine Garland's dress fetches £140,000 27 Apr 05 | Film Films - Breakfast at Tiffany's Films - Audrey Hepburn profile The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6698753.stm | Europe | Poland targets 'gay' Teletubbies 28 May 2007, 15:49 GMT 16:49 UK targets 'gay' Teletubbies Tinky Winky was once attacked by the late US Rev Jerry Falwell A senior Polish official has ordered psychologists to investigate whether the popular BBC TV show Teletubbies promotes a homosexual lifestyle. The spokesperson for children's rights in Poland, Ewa Sowinska, singled out Tinky Winky, the purple character with a triangular aerial on his head. "I noticed he was carrying a woman's handbag," she told a magazine. "At first, I didn't realise he was a boy." EU officials have criticised Polish government policy towards homosexuals. Ms Sowinska wants the psychologists to make a recommendation about whether the children's show should be broadcast on public television. Poland's authorities have recently initiated a series of moves to outlaw the promotion of homosexuality among the nation's children. Tinky Winky's psychological evaluation is being treated fairly light-heartedly by many people here. One radio station asked its listeners to vote for the most suspicious children's show. Some e-mailed in, saying that Winnie the Pooh had only male friends. Even Ms Sowinska has backtracked a little, insisting that she does not believe the Teletubbies is a threat to the nation's children. But the evaluation is still going ahead and her office can recommend that the show should be taken off the air. Poland was criticised recently after its education ministry announced plans to sack teachers who promote homosexuality. Last month the European Union singled out Poland for criticism in its resolution condemning homophobia in the 27-member bloc. urged to halt 'homophobia' 26 Apr 07 | Europe Polish 'anti-gay' bill criticised 19 Mar 07 | Europe Fears of Poland's gay community 10 Jun 06 | Europe 'Gay Tinky Winky bad for children' 15 Feb 99 | Entertainment The 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Russia blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6701863.stm | Music site Last.fm bought by CBS 30 May 2007, 10:55 GMT 11:55 UK site Last.fm bought by CBS Last.fm connects users who share the same music tastes Social music site Last.fm has been bought by US media giant CBS Corporation for $280m (£140m), the largest-ever UK Web 2.0 acquisition. The online network was founded in the UK five years ago and it now has more than 15 million active users. It allows users to connect with other listeners with similar music tastes, to custom-build their own radio stations and to watch music video-clips. Last.fm founding member Martin Stiksel said it was an "exciting opportunity". Last.fm is one of the fastest growing online communities out there As part of the deal, Last.fm's managing team will remain in place and the site will maintain its own separate identity. Mr Stiksel said: "This move will really support us to get every track ever recorded and every music video ever made onto Last.fm. "With a strong partner like CBS, this is now within our reach." CBS Corporation has business interests in TV, web and radio. CBS radio is the largest radio group in the United States, with 179 stations in the top 50 markets covering news, rock, country and urban music. The firm's president and CEO Leslie Moonves said: "Last.fm is one of the fastest growing online communities out there." The web has helped revolutionise listening to music He said Last.fm's strength in building communities around music and syndicating content was "central to CBS". He added: "Their demographics also play perfectly to CBS's goal to attract younger viewers and listeners across our businesses." CBS is not the first major player to purchase up-and-coming websites for millions or even billions of dollars, prompting what some have called the second dot.com boom. In 2005 Rupert Murdoch's News Corp snapped up social networking site MySpace for $580m (£290m). And last year, search engine Google paid $1.65bn (£883m) for video site YouTube. Mr Stiksel said Last.fm would retain an independent identity. He said CBS was buying "great technology and a very vibrant, active community". "They want to move from a content company to an audience company giving the audiences control and learning from this and that's why Last.fm was their choice," he added. Being in London has helped us; it's the best place to do things with music full stop Mr Stiksel said he did not think that users would feel disappointed that a mainstream media firm had bought the site. "When we said revolution we mean that - we put the users in charge. CBS gets this. "They understand that consuming media is changing, the patterns are changing." As part of the acquisition, the Last.fm management team, including founders Felix Miller, Martin Stiksel and Richard Jones, will continue to independently run the online network Mr Stiksel said the deal proved that Web 2.0 companies did not have to be in the United States to succeed. "Being in London has helped us; it's the best place to do things with music full stop. It's the place that leads the world." The three founders will now be among the most successful - and potentially wealthy - Web 2.0 pioneers in the world. Mr Stiksel said: "The success of the site is the most important thing. With a strong partner we can add the features we always dreamed about." AND AUDIO NEWS How Last.fm became an internet success 'Fatal' blow to web broadcasters 17 Apr 07 | Technology Will digital kill the radio star? 19 Feb 07 | Technology Web users driving change in 2007 01 Jan 07 | Technology Time lists 50 'coolest websites' 15 Aug 06 | Technology Web apps tracking users attention 22 Feb 07 | Technology The and offline worlds merge Apple TV to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6709407.stm discuss hit Beatles album 31 May 2007, 16:15 GMT 17:15 UK discuss hit Beatles album The Beatles' original album is 40 years old on 1 June 2007 Forty years since the Beatles released iconic album Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band, a group of academics are meeting to discuss its cultural impact. The album, released in the UK on 1 June 1967, is regarded by critics and fans as the most influential album ever. Experts will gather at the University of Leeds to analyse the album later this month. Event organiser Simon Warner said the album was a "ground-breaking moment". He added: "It's the most important album by the most important group. "The whole album has so many colours and nuances - and that amazing multicoloured sleeve perfectly echoes what's going on inside." The event, which is open to the public, will examine the album's social and cultural resonance and question why it continues to hold a fascination for new audiences, four decades after its release. The event - A Day in the Life - Sgt Pepper at 40 - takes place in the University of Leeds on 19 June. says Lennon 'was best' 25 stars to recreate Sgt Pepper 06 Apr Pepper tops album poll 29 Aug waxworks sell for £81,500 28 Oct 05 | Music Beatles hailed 'best of British' 11 Sep 05 | Music The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6700631.stm for BBC phone-in contests 29 May 2007, 12:48 GMT 13:48 UK for BBC phone-in contests The faked Blue Peter result was broadcast in November 2006 The BBC Trust has ordered a review of how the BBC uses premium rate phone lines after problems on two of its television shows. The BBC apologised after the results of a competition on Blue Peter were faked and Saturday Kitchen was criticised for not being clear a show was not live. The Trust accepted action was taken by the BBC but felt an independent review would help restore public confidence. An internal review has recommended tighter rules. Grave mistakes were compounded by serious errors of judgment Sir Michael Lyons, BBC Trust chairman The report from the BBC's director general found that while the vast majority of shows had used premium rate lines correctly, the exceptions had fallen "seriously" short of standards expected of the corporation. On one Blue Peter show a guest was asked to pose as a competition winner when entrants could not get through on phone lines because of a technical problem. Mark Thompson's report was particularly concerned that the incident was not referred to more senior management. It noted that the programme's editor had since moved to another role and extra training made available to staff. The mistakes on Saturday Kitchen - where viewers were encouraged to ring in to a pre-recorded show - were blamed on "loose scripting" and rules on approving scripts had been tightened. A wider review of programmes found no serious problems and no malicious intent in any procedures. However, a new system of guidelines to make sure any quizzes are appropriate and genuinely challenging is being put in place. And all "live" telephone competitions where a winner is selected within a half-hour show have been suspended. BBC Trust chairman Sir Michael Lyons said the Blue Peter errors were particularly serious. "These grave mistakes were compounded by serious errors of judgment in not referring the matter to senior management," he said. The external review, which is expected to be completed in the autumn, will be led by Ron Neil, the BBC's former director of News and Current Affairs and author of the Neil Report, which looked into reporting in the wake of the Hutton Inquiry. The BBC Trust is an independent body which oversees the work of the corporation on behalf of the licence fee payer. It replaced the governors at the beginning of 2007. shows hit by TV phone-in crisis - and what is being done Phone-in confidence fall hits ITV GMTV's quiz firm admits errors TV quizzes must be made 'fairer' Reprimand for X Factor vote error Missed TV quiz texts sparks probe Regulator sets new TV quiz rules Q&A: Premium rate phone lines Wake-up call over phone scams 'I spent £9,000 on TV quiz lines' Rings musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6707483.stm 5 crowns US album charts 31 May 2007, 10:31 GMT 11:31 UK 5 crowns US album charts The Californian band are also top of the US singles chart US band Maroon 5's first album in four years is leading the US charts, putting it top on both sides of the Atlantic. It Won't Be Soon Before Long sold more than 400,000 copies in the US, leaving last week's leader Linkin Park's Minutes To Midnight a distant second. The album sold 102,000 copies through download sales alone, breaking a record set just last week by Linkin Park. Rocker Ozzy Osbourne's Black Rain - his first release in six years - went in at three, with sales of 152,000. Maroon 5 are currently dominating the charts, with Makes Me Wonder also at the top of the US singles chart, in addition to the album entering at number one in the UK last weekend. Their last album, Songs about Jane, contained two UK top five hits - This Love and She Will be Loved. Makes Me Wonder is presently at number two in the UK. Album sales in the US were down 3.2% from last week's total, and down 16.7% compared to the same week last year. holds fast at number one 27 album cracks US top 10 03 music bucks US sales fall - for now 16 Apr 07 | Business US CD sales drop 20% in one year 23 Mar musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6699675.stm plans Potter purchase as PM 29 May 2007, 07:22 GMT 08:22 UK plans Potter purchase as PM Mr Brown said summer was the best time for reading novels Gordon Brown has revealed that one of his first acts as prime minister will be to read the final Harry Potter book. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is published on 21 July, just three weeks after Mr Brown succeeds Tony Blair. Westminster commentators are predicting a flurry of political activity, but Mr Brown told BBC Radio 4 he had already drawn up a summer reading list. Mr Brown has called JK Rowling's books Britain's "greatest export", and says he wants his sons to read them one day. Both are still too young to read the novels. John is three, while Fraser celebrates his first birthday a day after the final Potter is published. Mr Brown was speaking to the Today programme from the Hay-On-Wye literary festival, where he is promoting his own book, Courage, about his personal heroes. "This summer, I think (I will read) Thomas Keneally, who's just brought out a new book which is about war and heroes," he said. "I will probably want to dip into JK Rowling, hoping that is something my sons will want to read later. "And I suspect I will have a look at Al Gore's book." Gore's polemic, The Assault on Reason, presents a critical assessment of the US Government's approach to policy-making. "I think reading, in the literal sense, broadens the mind," Mr Brown added. "It opens up to you ideas and themes and vistas that you otherwise would never really grasp. "Summer is the best time to read books." Mr Brown is set to become party leader and prime minister on 27 June. child matters,' says Brown 26 Beware 'spoilers', warns Rowling 14 named top for Potter-mania 09 Postal plan begins on Potter book 28 Dec praises Potter books 14 Jul 05 | Arts Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq 27 Bloomsbury - Harry Potter site The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6708379.stm | Hereford/Worcs | A first hearing for Elgar's last 31 May 2007, 13:38 GMT 14:38 UK first hearing for Elgar's last The music is about "a disappointing love affair" The last piece of music ever written by the composer Edward Elgar is to have its world premiere this weekend on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The work, called X-T-C, was discovered by pianist David Owen Norris who will perform it at the Royal Academy of Music in London on 2 June. He said he pieced the music together from two sketches found at the composer's birthplace near Worcester. One of his best works is a highlight of the BBC's Last Night of the Proms. Pomp and Circumstance March No 1 is sung to the words "Land of Hope and Glory". Mr Norris told the BBC that the X-T-C piece is a nostalgic take on his feelings after a love affair. "Like most of Elgar's songs it's about his rather disappointing love affair with Helen Weaver and she fell ill and went to New Zealand to die, but in fact didn't die and haunted him for the rest of his life and many of his songs, like this one, are about how happy he could have been, if only," Mr Norris told BBC News. Elgar was born in 1857 in Lower Broadheath near Malvern, Worcs and died in 1934, the same year that two other great English composers died - Gustav Holst and Frederick Delius. His image was removed from the back of £20 notes earlier this year and replaced by Scottish economist Adam Smith. AND AUDIO NEWS The 'lost' piece of Elgar's work BBC Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester Elgar anniversary events planned 31 Dec 06 | West Midlands Keep Elgar on £20 notes campaign 02 Nov 06 | Hereford/Worcs Minor injury unit to have doctor Duo fined for dating website joke Police introduce new head cameras Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6708449.stm rally round for Lohan 31 May 2007, 14:42 GMT 15:42 UK rally round for Lohan Lohan is back in rehab for the second time this year Producers of actress Lindsay Lohan's forthcoming film are re-working the schedule so the star can film her role when she has completed rehab. The 20-year-old, who was due to begin shooting Poor Things this week, sought treatment after being arrested following a car crash at the weekend. Police said they found a substance thought to be cocaine in her car. Co-star and producer Shirley MacLaine said "in the spirit of helping" Lohan, they were trying to re-arrange filming. "We wish her love and the blending of mind, body and spirit," the statement added. Lohan was arrested on Saturday after her car mounted a kerb on Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles. She was not charged, but is due to appear in court in August. It is not the first time the star's personal life has caused problems with her film career. Last July, studio executive James G Robinson went public with a letter to Lohan, scolding her for repeatedly showing up late on the set of Georgia Rule. He called her behaviour "discourteous, irresponsible and unprofessional", and cited her "ongoing all-night heavy partying" as the reason for her tardiness. It is the second time the star has checked into rehab this year. She spent a month at the Promises treatment centre in Malibu in January. Lohan checks into rehab 30 held over 'drink driving' 27 Lohan enters rehab centre 18 Jan 'attending AA for a year' 13 Dec mother responds to rebuke 31 Jul musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6708043.stm Brother launch watched by 6m 31 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 UK Brother launch watched by 6m Some of the housemates were booed as they entered the house An average of 6.2 million viewers tuned in to watch the launch of the eighth series of Channel 4's Big Brother, according to overnight figures. Audience numbers were down by 800,000 compared with 7 million viewers for the start of the seventh series in 2006. Following the end of ITV's British Soap Awards and BBC One's The Apprentice, the audience peaked at 8 million. It is the first time an all-female house has launched the show, but a male housemate will join them shortly. Viewing figures were well above average for the C4 time slot, with the reality show drawing 26 per cent of available viewers. Channel 4's commissioning editor for Big Brother, Angela Jain, said: "This heralds a fantastic start to Big Brother." The show opened with an official apology, ordered by Ofcom, over C4's handling of the race row involving celebrity contestants Jade Goody, Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara and their treatment of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty. House rules for this series have been updated to warn against bullying and to make clear that offensive remarks on the grounds of race, religion or sexuality are unacceptable. Carole received the biggest cheer of the night from waiting crowds The 11 contestants include the first set of twins ever to enter the house, a member of the Women's Institute and a Victoria Beckham wannabe. Charley, an unemployed former lap dancer, was greeted with boos and chants of "get a job" by the crowd as she arrived at the house, at Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire. Political protester Carole received the loudest cheer of the night. A single man is expected to enter the house on Friday to join the contest for the £100,000 prize. It is rumoured that the female contestants will choose from three possible contenders. Brother picks all-woman house 31 the Big Brother housemates 31 pictures: BB housemates arrive 31 Pictures Ethics of reality TV 30 'No profit' from Big Brother vote 29 Brother race row transcript 24 Brother rapped over race row 24 musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6703019.stm at Spector house 'homicide' 30 May 2007, 08:20 GMT 09:20 UK at Spector house 'homicide' Dr Pena indicated the path of the bullet that killed Clarkson US actress Lana Clarkson's death was a homicide, a coroner has told the murder trial of music producer Phil Spector. Dr Louis Pena said bruising suggested the barrel of a gun may have been forced into Ms Clarkson's mouth before she was fatally shot in 2003. Ms Clarkson was a hopeful person with no history of depression or suicide attempts, he told the court. Mr Spector, 67, is accused of killing Ms Clarkson at his Hollywood mansion. The defence says she shot herself. It says she placed the gun in her mouth and pulled the trigger. Dr Pena also told the court that there were bruises on Ms Clarkson's right arm and wrist but could not confirm the cause of the marks. Referring to the bruise on her tongue, he said it was "very unique and is consistent with blunt-force trauma. Something struck the tongue". Dr Pena said there was no evidence that Ms Clarkson had been preparing to kill herself and that she died with a purse on one shoulder, which, he said, was not typical of a suicide. "I found her to be a hopeful person from the notes I read," he said. Ms Clarkson had been taking two drugs generally given for depression at the time of her death, but her neurologist had prescribed them for her chronic headaches, Dr Pena said. Lawyers for Mr Spector say Clarkson killed herself In cross-examination, Mr Spector's lawyer Christopher Plourd sought to show that the coroner had relied heavily on the work of others in analysing the forensic evidence. Dr Pena conceded he was not an expert in gunshot residue or blood spatter and acknowledged he consulted textbooks in coming to his conclusions. Mr Spector pioneered the "Wall of Sound" recording technique in the 60s, working with stars such as The Beatles, Tina Turner and The Righteous Brothers. He is accused of killing is Ms Clarkson, 40, on 3 February 2003, hours after meeting her at the Sunset Strip nightclub House of Blues where she worked. If convicted, Mr Spector faces between 15 years and life in prison. SPECTOR ON TRIAL Listen to the renowned Spector sound as the pop pioneer faces trial Spector driver testimony queried Spector 'made killing admission' Producer 'was not his usual self' Murder trial hears gun claims Spector ex-lawyer 'took evidence' Spector's ex tells of gun threats Phil Spector: Pop innovator Lana Clarkson: B-movie actress Music legend faces media circus Phil Spector denies murder Pop legend charged with murder The musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/default.stm 4's PM programme Thursday, 31 May 2007, 16:43 GMT 17:43 UK Rings musical halted by accident Performances of the London stage version of Lord of the Rings are cancelled after a cast member is injured. The West End meets Middle-earth Audition offers shortcut to fame Rings musical unveils London cast First Magpie host Bastable dies Tony Bastable, one of the original presenters of children's TV show Magpie, dies aged 62. EMI strikes a deal with YouTube EMI signs a deal with YouTube that will allow the website's users to use music videos by EMI artists. 6m watch Big Brother launch Experts discuss hit Beatles album Divorce given to Piper and Evans BBC Salford move gets go-ahead Film-makers rally round for Lohan Hepburn dress sells for $192,000 ALSO IN THE NEWS It could be magic - announced Exhibition looks at what happened when Dali met Disney How the TV industry is being altered by the 'record' button Should reality TV shows be vetted for ethical treatment? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS First concert for 'lost' Elgar piece Jackson items under hammer Theme park for Potter fans UK music site sold for £140m More Video / Audio News Entertainment news and gossip Pirates take box office by storm Actress Lohan checks into rehab Death at Spector house 'homicide' Bollywood plans 'Woolmer movie' Maroon 5 crowns US album charts Timberlake launches record label Spears says she 'hit rock bottom' Michael 'was on drugs', court told Music site Last.fm bought by CBS Street's Les Battersby to leave Outcry over TV kidney contest Review for BBC phone-in contests 'No profit' from Big Brother vote Poland targets 'gay' Teletubbies A first hearing for Elgar's last Performance artist 'eats corgi' Chancellor plans Potter purchase Fury over Glyndebourne turbine What do you think about plans for a Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Michael 'was on drugs' court told Outcry over TV kidney competition Romanian drama wins Cannes gold The Jacksons prepare to sell 1,100 items of showbiz memorabilia Leslie Phillips offers serious advice at Hay on how to be funny FROM OTHER BBC SITES Win a fantastic prize by creating a Doctor Who game idea ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6707115.stm launches record label 31 May 2007, 09:23 GMT 10:23 UK launches record label Timberlake's first two solo albums have sold more than 13m copies US pop star Justin Timberlake has joined forces with a rival music company to launch his own record label. The SexyBack singer will sign artists and release their music through Tennman Records, a joint venture with Interscope Records. Timberlake will serve as chairman and chief executive, a statement said. He said: "We are all excited about the talent we have to offer already... and I cannot wait to introduce the world to my new discoveries." Day-to-day operations will be handled by Ken Komisar, a former vice-president at Sony BMG Music Entertainment, who was named president of Tennman. Timberlake's first two solo albums - 2002's Justified and last year's FutureSex/LoveSounds - have sold more than 13 million copies combined. adds new stop to tour 24 Mar Timberlake refused honour 22 Mar and Timberlake confirm split 12 Jan musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6712183.stm Pirates wins at MTV Awards in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 09:20 GMT 10:20 UK Pirates wins at MTV Awards Johnny Depp's second Pirates film was nominated for four awards Johnny Depp's Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest has won two gongs at the MTV Movie Awards in Los Angeles. The second Pirates film won best movie, with Depp, who played Captain Jack Sparrow, picking up best performance. Accepting the award on stage with producer Jerry Bruckheimer, Depp said: "I'd like to thank this man and Disney for not firing me." Meanwhile, the third film, At World's End, has topped the North American box office chart for the second week. The new movie, which also stars Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom, took $43.2m (£21.8m) over the weekend, taking its total bounty to $216.5m (£109m). Will Ferrell and Sacha Baron Cohen recreated their award-winning kiss At the MTV ceremony, British actor Sacha Baron Cohen, who wrote and starred in Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan, won best comedic performance. Speaking on stage, he said: "Unfortunately Borat can't be here tonight, he's been feeling the pressures of fame and had to check himself into rehab." Cohen also won best kiss along with Will Ferrell for their embrace in Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby. The two comedians shared a long and passionate smooch on stage, which ended up with them rolling around on the floor as they accepted their awards. Actress Cameron Diaz presented Mike Myers with his award Other big winners included Mike Myers, who won the MTV generation award, while Jack Nicholson took the prize for best villain for his mobster role in The Departed. The prize for best fight went to Gerard Butler, who battled "The Uber Immortal" in the epic 300. Will Smith's nine-year-old son Jaden won the breakthrough performance prize for his role in The Pursuit of Happyness. The ceremony, which was hosted by comedienne Sarah Silverman, took place at the Gibson Amphitheater. Each winner received an award in the shape of a tub containing golden popcorn. battles Pirates at MTV Awards 01 May movie 300 still US number one 19 Mar storms public film awards 10 Jan sequel tops 2006 UK chart 19 Dec sequel sells 5m in a day 07 Dec honoured at MTV awards 04 Jun of the Caribbean The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6710645.stm Glastonbury line-up released in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 10:49 GMT 11:49 UK Glastonbury line-up released The Arctic Monkeys will headline the Pyramid Stage on the Friday The full line-up of musicians to perform at the Glastonbury festival later this month has been announced. The Who, The Killers and Arctic Monkeys will be headlining on the Pyramid Stage during the three-day event. Among the more than 200 acts listed are Rufus Wainwright, Lily Allen, Amy Winehouse, The Gossip, Paul Weller, Chemical Brothers and Shirley Bassey. The festival, which starts on 22 June, will be the largest yet, with an extended capacity of 177,500. That figure was agreed as part of a new four-year licence for the festival, taking it up to 2010. "The line-up this year is so good we've even surpassed ourselves," said organiser Michael Eavis. "You could not dream up what has happened to this festival. It never fails to amaze me." Mr Eavis added that he is most looking forward to the performance of US singer John Fogerty on the Jazz World stage - and would then watch The Killers on the main stage afterwards. Kasabian, The Fratellis, Bloc Party and The Kooks are among the other big acts which have been confirmed to play on the largest stage at the festival. On the second Other Stage, Bjork, The Coral, Editors and Babyshambles will perform. Dame Shirley Bassey has been in the limelight for 50 years Headlining the John Peel Stage will be Hot Chip, The Twang and The Gossip. It is the first time music lovers have had to register for tickets for the Somerset festival. In March around 400,000 people registered by sending in their details and a photo of themselves in the hope that they would eventually be able to buy tickets. Organisers have since hailed the registration process as a success as they say it has prevented touts from buying tickets. This year festival-goers will be asked to make a difference to climate change by reducing their carbon footprint. As well as eating organic food, washing in carbon neutral showers, using eco-friendly toilets and being supplied with recycled toilet paper, revellers will be invited to join the I Count campaign. It details 16 steps to reduce their environmental impact, and aims to sign up 100,000 people in three days. A small number of returned tickets go on sale on the See Tickets website on Sunday. Arctic Monkeys, Kasabian, The Fratellis, Bloc Party, Magic Numbers, Amy Winehouse, Gogol Bordello, The Earlies, The View, Adjagas Bjork, Arcade Fire, Rufus Wainright, The Coral, Super Furry Animals, Bright Eyes,The Automatic, Modest Mouse, The Cribs, Reverend and the Makers, Mr Hudson and the Library Hot Chip, Maccabees, Mumm Ra, Jack Penate, The Hold Steady, The New Pornographers, Tokyo Police Club, Good Shoes, The Annuals, Disco Ensemble, Fear Of Music, Look See Proof The Killers, The Kooks, Paul Weller, Paolo Nutini, Lily Allen, Dirty Pretty Things, Guillemots, The Pipettes, Seasick Steve, Liz Green Iggy and the Stooges, Editors, Maximo Park, Babyshambles, The Klaxons, CSS, Biffy Clyro, The Long Blondes, Brakes, El Presidente, The Switches The Twang, Get Cape, Wear Cape, Fly, Patrick Wolf, Bats For Lashes, Pigeon Detectives, Calvin Harris, You Say Party! We Say Die! Holy F***, The Heights, The Rushes, The Hours, Grim Northern Social, Blue Bullet The Who, Kaiser Chiefs, Manic Street Preachers, Dame Shirley Bassey, James Morrison, The Marleys, The Waterboys, Corb Lund, National Youth Orchestra Chemical Brothers, The View, The Go Team, Mika, The Rakes, Get Cape, Wear Cape, Fly, Cold War Kids, Sunshine Underground, The Enemy, The Holloways, Kharma 45 The Gossip, Jamie T, Just Jack, Mark Ronson, Scott Matthews, Young Knives, The Rumble Strips, The Horrors, The Noisettes, Tiny Dancers, Aqualung, Shoot the Moon fans get green lesson 29 May tickets snapped up 01 Apr confirmed for Glastonbury 27 Mar wins licence to 2010 27 Mar register for Glastonbury 06 Mar Chiefs playing Glastonbury 27 Feb to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6717981.stm film car fetches $505,000 in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 08:24 GMT 09:24 UK film car fetches $505,000 The film starred Dick Van Dyke as inventor Caractacus Potts One of the "flying" red and yellow cars from children's film Chitty Chitty Bang Bang has sold for $505,000 (£255,000) at auction in Indiana, USA. It was bought by Florida resident Ralph Spencer, who already owns a Batmobile. "I've always liked this car," he said after making his purchase. "I was a fan of the movie." The 1968 film, which starred Dick Van Dyke, was based on a book by James Bond author Ian Fleming and featured a script by children's writer Roald Dahl. Fleming wrote the novel, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang: The Magical Car, in 1961 while recovering from a heart attack. It was originally envisaged as three separate stories but was published as one in 1964. As well as the film, the story has been turned into a successful stage musical. Several vehicles were built for the film, two of which can be found at the Cars of the Stars motor museum in Keswick, UK. The model auctioned at the weekend had previously been displayed in a Chicago restaurant known as JR's Retreat. It was being sold to help pay off a bankruptcy debt, according to the auction listings. "The car was in storage for so long, it needed a little work," said Dean Kruse, president of Kruse Auction Park. Nonetheless, the winged vehicle attracted several fans of the film - including David Stefanchick, 48, who brought his family from Cincinnati to the auction to see it in person. "I'm thinking about building a replica," he told the Reuters news agency. "Just think about the reaction of the kids in the neighbourhood if they saw this thing rolling down the street. The ice cream truck wouldn't stand a chance." dream becomes reality 06 Apr 07 | Hampshire Chitty star wins sentence appeal 14 Apr 06 | Scotland Children get must-see movie list 20 Jul 05 | Film Rare Chitty papers go under hammer 30 Nov 02 | Entertainment Crash stalls Chitty show 01 Nov 02 | Showbiz Chitty Chitty Bang Bang - The Musical The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6718709.stm With The Wind set for stage in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 11:28 GMT 12:28 UK With The Wind set for stage The Oscar-winning film starred Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh Rhett Butler and Scarlett O'Hara are to come to the West End next year in a musical version of Gone With The Wind. The new adaptation will be directed by Sir Trevor Nunn - who returns to the New London Theatre, where he launched Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber's Cats in 1981. In a statement, Sir Trevor said he was "drawn to the challenge" of adapting Margaret Mitchell's vast, Pulitzer Prize-winning novel for the stage. In 1939, the book was turned into an epic film that won 10 Academy Awards. Starring Clark Gable and Vivien Leigh, it has been named the most successful movie of all time at the US box office by film trade journal Screen Digest. It tells the story of southern belle Scarlett O'Hara, whose idyllic lifestyle is shattered when President Lincoln's demands to end slavery trigger the American Civil War. The novel has been turned into a musical before. A Japanese production, Scarlett, premiered in Tokyo in 1970 before being overhauled for the London stage in 1972. Sir Trevor's production has been in the works for three years. It features music and lyrics from first-time composer Margaret Martin. Producer Aldo Scrofani said the musical would "remain true to Margaret Mitchell's original story and characters while also revealing its relevance to our lives today". The show is expected to open in April 2008, but no information about casting has been released. defends RSC over Lear claims 11 May Nunn to make RSC comeback 23 May tops successful movie list 05 Sep 05 | Arts Frankly, Rhett has top film quote 22 Jun 05 | Film Wind snubbed in Time's film list 24 May 05 | Film Gone With The Wind film review The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6712719.stm down on Poppins musical in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 14:35 GMT 15:35 UK down on Poppins musical Laura Michelle Kelly played the lead when the show opened The West End stage musical of Mary Poppins is to close after a run of more than three years. The show, which recently marked its 1,000th performance at the Prince Edward Theatre, will come to an end on 12 January. A world tour of the production is due to start in the UK next year. The musical was brought to the West End by impresario Sir Cameron Mackintosh in 2004 at a cost of £9m, and opened to enthusiastic reviews. Mary Poppins is expected to make way for Jersey Boys, currently on Broadway. Dame Julie Andrews, who played the lead role in the classic 1964 film on which the show was based upon, attended a gala performance in 2005. It went on to win two Olivier Awards that year, including best musical actress for its original star Laura Michelle Kelly. The current stars of the show are Scarlett Strallen as the magical nanny and Gavin Creel as chimney sweep Bert. stage show heads for US 11 Nov 05 | Arts Dame Julie pops in to see Poppins 17 Mar 05 | Arts Poppins musical gets flying start 16 Dec 04 | Arts Mary Poppins The Musical The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6711947.stm sale for Mexican film star in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 12:14 GMT 13:14 UK sale for Mexican film star Felix was Mexico's answer to Marilyn Monroe The estate of Mexican screen legend Maria Felix is to go up for auction next month. The Christie's sale in New York on 17 and 18 July includes clothing, film memorabilia and a portrait of her that has never been publicly exhibited. She was renowned as a femme fatale throughout Latin America and was the one-time lover of painter Diego Rivera. A portrait of her by Rivera is expected to fetch up to $200,000 (£100,000). Felix died at the age of 88 in 2002. But a 1965 surrealist portrait by Leonora Carrington, which has never been seen by the public, is estimated to sell for between $500,000 (£253,000) and $700,000 (£354,000). Over 600 lots are on offer, including pieces of antique furniture and jewellery. Some of the proceeds will go towards the Mexican Red Cross, Christie's said. Felix was nicknamed La Dona - which loosely translates as the Grand Dame - after the character from her breakthrough film Dona Barbara in 1943. She made 47 films in her career, though few of them were shown widely outside Spanish-speaking nations. Thousands of mourners turned out to pay their respects to Felix at her funeral in Mexico City. star 'died of natural causes' 01 Sep 02 | Film Mystery over Mexican 'Marilyn' death 01 Jun 07 | Film Mexico mourns its 'Marilyn' 09 Apr 02 | Showbiz Maria Felix official website The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6712641.stm housemate joins Big Brother in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 22:10 GMT 23:10 UK housemate joins Big Brother Ziggy had three top 20 hits with pop group Northern Line Big Brother's first male housemate of the latest series has entered the Channel 4 reality TV show. Model and music producer Zak Lichman - known as Ziggy - used to be a member of boy band Northern Line. The 26-year-old Londoner joins the 11 women in the house since Wednesday who include a member of the Women's Institute and a former lap-dancer. According to bookmakers Ladbrokes, Welsh nanny Laura is the favourite to win the show and the £100,000 prize. Manchester United star Kieran Richardson's cousin Charley is the most unpopular housemate. Northern Line had three top 20 hits with Run For Your Life, Love on the Northern Line and All Around the World (2000). Ziggy joins the 11 female housemates on the show An average of 6.2 million viewers tuned in to watch the launch of the eighth series of Big Brother. The show opened with an official apology, ordered by Ofcom, over Channel Four's handling of the race row on January's Celebrity Big Brother. It involved celebrity contestants Jade Goody, Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara and their treatment of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty. House rules for this series have been updated to warn against bullying and to make clear that offensive remarks on the grounds of race, religion or sexuality are unacceptable. Brother launch watched by 6m 31 May Brother picks all-woman house 31 May the Big Brother housemates 31 May pictures: BB housemates arrive 31 May 07 | In Pictures The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6714063.stm kidney competition was a hoax in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 09:30 GMT 10:30 UK kidney competition was a hoax The 'contestants' were all in genuine need of a kidney A Dutch TV contest that purported to show a dying woman choose a patient to receive her kidneys was a hoax. The "donor" in the show was in fact an actress - though the three people vying for an organ were real patients in need of a kidney transplant. The three knew that The Big Donor Show, which aired on Friday, was not real. The producers say it was made to highlight the shortage of Dutch donors. Before the hoax was revealed, the show had attracted widespread criticism. "We are not giving away a kidney here, that is going too far even for us," presenter Patrick Lodiers said at the moment when the fake donor was apparently about to reveal her choice of patient. The 37-year-old "donor", identified only as Lisa, was to make her choice based on the contestants' history and profile, and conversation with their family and friends. Bad taste or not, the programme has achieved its goal of raising awareness of the issue Send us your comments Earlier, Lisa had said that it felt like playing God. "Think of it as playing Santa Claus," replied the presenter. Viewers were invited to send in their opinions and votes by text message during the 80-minute show. "We have only done this cry for help because we want to solve a problem that shouldn't be a problem," a producer told a news conference after the show. Dutch Culture Minister Ronald Plasterk hailed the show as a "fantastic stunt". Caroline Klingers, a kidney patient who was watching the programme at a treatment centre in the town of Bussum, also praised it. "It's good for the publicity and there are no losers," she said. Helen Illes, a British woman who had a kidney transplant four years ago, said she was repulsed by the show at first but hoped the publicity would help highlight the need for more donors. "Although my initial thinking was that this was disgraceful, I thought if this is being done with actors, then I understand it," she said. "But what kind of society do we live in where there has to be this kind of show to make people sit up and take notice about it?" she added. BBC News website readers had mixed views. Richard Taylor said it was an "excellent way to highlight the shortage of organs and the desperate plight of those who require them". But Doug Nanaimo wrote: "That anyone believed that this was real shows how horrible, tasteless and puerile most television programming has become." Earlier in the week Dutch Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende had criticised the programme, saying it could damage the reputation of the Netherlands. There were calls from lawmakers to ban the show and Dutch embassies received complaints about it. But Mr Lodiers said it was "reality that was shocking" because about 200 people die each year while waiting for a kidney in the Netherlands, and the average waiting time is more than four years. AND AUDIO NEWS Clips from The Big Donor Show Outcry over TV kidney competition 29 May reality TV shocked the world 29 May to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6716847.stm thwarts Mutya challenge in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 17:59 GMT 18:59 UK thwarts Mutya challenge Umbrella is Rihanna's first number one single in the UK R&B singer Rihanna has remained at the top of the UK singles chart for the third week with her song Umbrella. The Barbadian-born star saw off the challenge of former Sugababe Mutya Buena, whose debut solo single Real Girl climbed seven to number two. Pensioner group The Zimmers entered the charts at number 26 with their cover version of The Who's My Generation. Maroon 5 remained on top of the album chart, while Wait For Me by the Pigeon Detectives entered at number three. R Kelly's Double Up also graced the top 10 album rundown in its first week of release, at number 10. UK TOP FIVE SINGLES 1 Umbrella - Rihanna 2 Real Girl - Mutya Buena 3 Beautiful Liar - Beyonce and Shakira 4 Here In Your Arms - Hellogoodbye 5 Makes Me Wonder - Maroon 5 Source: Official Charts Company In the singles chart, Calvin Harris's The Girls was the only new entry in the top 10, making its debut at number nine. The high climbers included Either Way by the Twang, which has landed at number eight, while Reverend and The Maker's Heavyweight Champion of The World rocketed from 38 to 12. Marilyn Manson settled inside the top 20 with Heart-Shaped Glasses, the opener from his forthcoming album Eat Me, Drink Me. The Zimmers entered the chart two places higher than Spanish singer Enrique Iglesias, who debuted at 28. The group were formed as part of a BBC documentary about elderly people, which explored feelings of isolation brought about by old age. Will Daws, a producer on the programme who came up with the idea of forming The Zimmers, said: "I think this is an absolute triumph. "Now we're in the charts DJs will have to play us and hopefully we can break into the top 10," he added. AND AUDIO NEWS The Zimmers talk about their chart success Rihanna holds fast at number one 27 May tops charts on downloads 21 May hold off Manics' chart push 06 May elders aim for chart success 13 Apr and Shakira top UK chart 22 Apr 1 - UK Top 40 Official UK Charts Company The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6720353.stm cancels gig after crash in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:40 GMT 17:40 UK cancels gig after crash George Michael will be the first artist to play the new Wembley Stadium Singer George Michael has cancelled a concert in Prague after a truck carrying his stage equipment crashed. A spokesman for the show said part of a large podium was trapped on the damaged truck between Bucharest and Prague and "it was not possible to replace it". The 43-year-old pop star arrived in Prague on Friday and was "profoundly saddened" by the cancellation, according to the spokesman. The concert was part of Michael's current 25 Live tour. He is due to play the first concert at the new Wembley Stadium next week. Michael recently appeared in court after being accused of driving under the influence of drugs. The singer, whose real name is George Panayitou, admitted driving while unfit but insisted his condition was due to "tiredness and prescribed drugs". He is due to be sentenced on 8 June, a day before his first Wembley gig. 'was on drugs' court told 31 May defends cannabis smoking 19 May adds fresh Wembley date 09 Mar to play first Wembley gig 05 Mar to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6716153.stm misses out on 'Joseph' final in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 09:28 GMT 10:28 UK misses out on 'Joseph' final Andrew Lloyd Webber said it was a tough decision to send Ben home Joseph hopeful Ben Ellis has been knocked out in the semi-final of BBC musical theatre talent hunt Any Dream Will Do. Lewis Bradley, Keith Jack and Lee Mead will battle it out in next week's final to choose a new lead for Joseph and The Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. Andrew Lloyd Webber ruled in favour of Bradley after he finished in the bottom two of the public vote with Ellis. Susan McFadden and Michelle Antrobus reached the Grease Is The Word final. Vicky Hoyles and Alison Crawford's dream of playing Sandy in the new West End musical production of Grease came to an end in the ITV1 talent search. Crawford failed to survive the judges' vote, while Hoyle was later eliminated in the public vote. They will join Danny Bayne and Anthony Kavanagh, who are vying to play the lead male role of Danny in the new production. to pick Joseph school choir 02 Jun gig to showcase new Joseph 05 May watch musical wannabes 08 Apr Dream Will Do Grease Is The Word The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/manchester/6709937.stm | Manchester | Football painter wins competition in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 23:51 GMT 00:51 UK painter wins competition Mr Barlow's oil painting will be put on a billboard at Old Trafford A Manchester United fan has scooped a top prize in an art competition - just three years after taking up painting. Gary Barlow, 54, who won £10,000, will see his artwork displayed on a billboard near Old Trafford. Mr Barlow, from Manchester, beat more than 1,600 entries from 27 countries to win the Barclays "Finding Van Gogh" competition with his oil painting. Fans were asked to convey in drawing, painting, photography or collage, an aspect of football which inspired them. Premiership footballer Teddy Sheringham, artist Sir Peter Blake and Arts Council chairman Sir Christopher Frayling were among the judging panel. Sir Peter said: "Gary's painting caught my eye immediately. The colours and textures used are striking, but what really stood out is the story behind the piece. "He has perfectly captured the passion and rivalry that so many people feel towards our national game." and features on the BBC's Manchester website The dies in chimney fall Man charged over pensioner death Ex-marine deported after sentence family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6716249.stm gives $10m to his college in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 10:04 GMT 11:04 UK gives $10m to his college Newman's career as an actor has spanned more than five decades Hollywood star Paul Newman is donating $10m (£5m) to start a scholarship fund at the US college he attended. The 82-year-old, who recently announced his retirement from acting, graduated from Kenyon College in 1949 with a degree in drama and economics. The actor's donation will find up to 20 students per year, who will be known as Newman's Own scholars. The nine-time Oscar nominee has donated more than $175m (£88.3m) to charity through food products bearing his name. Newman, whose film credits include Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid, has made private donations to the college in the past along with Joanne Woodward, his wife since 1958. The couple went public at the college's request to attract other alumni benefactors, said college spokesman Shawn Presley. Newman called his days at the Ohio college "among the happiest and most formative of my life". ""I believe strongly that we should be doing whatever we can to make all higher education opportunities available to deserving students. "I hope others will support Kenyon in this manner," he added. star Newman to retire 27 May Newman plans final movie 16 Jun backs US image rights bill 25 Mar 06 | TV and Radio TV 'reunites' Redford and Newman 23 Sep 05 | TV and Radio Children lap up Newman circus fun 02 Sep 04 | London Top film list hails Butch Cassidy 17 Dec 03 | Film Actor Newman escapes racing fire 09 Jan 05 | Film The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6710899.stm sale nears the $2m mark in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 10:39 GMT 11:39 UK sale nears the $2m mark In pictures: Jackson memorabilia sale Memorabilia from the Jackson family pop dynasty has sold for between $1.5m (£750,000) and $2m (£1m) during a two-day auction in Las Vegas. Among the items snapped up was a black military-style coat belonging to Michael Jackson, which sold for $24,000 (£12,131) according to the auctioneers. Jackson's MTV music award for song We Are The World fetched $16,000 (£8,087). The Guernsey's Auction House sale at the Hard Rock Hotel and Casino had over 1,100 items on offer. It billed the two-day auction as the biggest-ever sale of Jackson family memorabilia, including clothes, music sheets and gold disc awards belonging to Michael, Janet, Jermaine, Tito and La Toya. The final sales tally is still being calculated but the figure is expected to be between $1.5m (£750,000) and $2m (£1m). Some of the proceeds will go to charity. The Jackson collection was sold by Universal Express Inc, a luggage company, which acquired the items last March. The collection includes signed pictures, music sheets and awards "We are thrilled with the results of this initial auction," said Richard Altomare, Chairman and CEO of Universal Express. "But most importantly, I am excited for the children's charities that will be benefiting from the outcome, and feel proud that we could help these vital organisations," he added. A 1960s ID card belonging to Michael Jackson, identifying him as a Motown Records artist, was sold for $9,000 (£4,550). A glittery jacket owned by the pop star went for $19,000 (£9,600), while a 1984 telegram from the late actor Marlon Brando to Jackson sold for $1,600 (£800). Artwork inspired by Jackson's Thriller and Off the Wall albums was up for grabs The company's collection includes other Jackson items, such as master tapes of hundreds of songs, some never released - Mr Altomare said they will be sold at a later date. "We have two times the number of items here still in our warehouse," he added. The company bought the entire collection for $5m (£2.5m) and spent $2m (£1m) transporting them. The date and location of the second auction will be announced shortly. "We still have many items that fans and collectors will be very interested in purchasing," Mr Altomare said. Jackson initially opposed the auction but the matter was then resolved amicably. Other items that were sold include gold discs for Jackson's Off the Wall album and the Jackson 5 single I want You Back - they fetched $11,000 (£5,560) each. But a copy of the contract for Michael Jackson's purchase of his Californian ranch Neverland in 1987 was bought for just $100 (£50). A platinum record for his hit song Billie-Jean also sold for $100 (£50). pictures: Jacksons memorabilia sale 28 May 07 | In Pictures Jackson drops auction challenge 19 May memorabilia to go on sale 06 Apr to settle' Jackson case 06 Jan fights for memorabilia 20 Apr 04 | Music Michael Jackson fan club The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6714709.stm | Hereford/Worcs | Elgar's 150th anniversary marked in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 21:33 GMT 22:33 UK 150th anniversary marked Elgar was born in Worcestershire and died in 1934 Special performances have taken place to mark the 150th anniversary of the birth of one of Britain's greatest composers, Sir Edward Elgar. Elgar, who was born near Worcester, is famous for a string of symphonies and concertos, with Land of Hope and Glory among his best-known scores. Julian Lloyd Webber performed his Cello Concerto at Worcester Cathedral and later at London's Royal Albert Hall. Mr Lloyd Webber travelled between the two venues by helicopter. It's a huge challenge to play such a emotional piece twice in one day and in two different locations It is the first time the world-renowned cellist, who is the brother of composer Andrew Lloyd Webber, has performed at two separate locations with such restricted time constraints. Before his performances he said: "We do not have a huge number of inspirational great composers and of them, Elgar is the greatest so it's an important anniversary for Britain. "It's a huge challenge to play such a emotional piece twice in one day and in two different locations." In Worcester, Mr Lloyd Webber was joined by the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra for a special gala anniversary celebration. Elsewhere, the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and Chorus performed Elgar's three oratorios at Symphony Hall, Birmingham. Elgar, who was born in Broadheath, a village three miles from Worcester, was largely a self-taught composer, and is said to have studied music manuscripts in the countryside on his own as a boy. He grew up surrounded by music - his father, a tradesman, owned a music shop and was a piano tuner. Elgar, who also taught the violin and played the organ, married one of his pupils, Caroline Alice Roberts, in 1889. He died in 1934 - the same year as two other English composers - Gustav Holst and Frederick Delius. AND AUDIO NEWS Most of the concerts to celebrate Elgar have sold out Elgar was born and spent most of his life in Worcestershire Did Worcestershire affect Elgar's music? BBC Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester Travel, sport, culture and webcams from the BBC for Birmingham and Solihull A first hearing for Elgar's last 31 May 07 | Hereford/Worcs Elgar anniversary events planned 31 Dec 06 | West Midlands Keep Elgar on £20 notes campaign 02 Nov 06 | Hereford/Worcs Sir Edward Elgar music profile Sir Edward Elgar - Where I Live Hereford and Worcester 'Opportunist' gunman shot soldier Friendship help for migrant staff Man found hanged in prison cell family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6712015.stm unveils £50m diamond skull in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 13:08 GMT 14:08 UK unveils £50m diamond skull The diamonds encase a real human skull Artist Damien Hirst has unveiled a diamond-encrusted human skull worth £50m - said to be the most expensive piece of contemporary art. The 18th Century skull is entirely covered in 8,601 jewels, while new teeth were made for the artwork at a cost of £14m. The centrepiece of the 41-year-old's creation is a pear-shaped pink diamond, set in the skull's forehead. Hirst's most famous work is a shark preserved in formaldehyde. The skull, which was bought from a shop in Islington, north London, is thought to belong to a 35-year-old European who lived between 1720 and 1810. The £12m-worth of diamonds are said to be ethically sourced. Hirst said his piece, called For the Love of God, is "uplifting, takes your breath away". "It works much better than I imagined. I was slightly worried that we'd end up with an Ali G ring," he added. "You just want it to be flawless, like a diamond is a flawless. We wanted to put them everywhere," Hirst said of the skull. "They go underneath, inside the nose. Anywhere you can put diamonds, we've put diamonds. "I wouldn't mind if it happened to my skull after my death," he added. The artist said that he was inspired by an Aztec turquoise skull at the British Museum, and hopes that his work will eventually be displayed at the institution. Other Hirst works which have also gone on display at the White Cube gallery in London include a painting of his son's birth by Caesarean section and a tiger shark cut in half and suspended in two tanks of formaldehyde. Art expert Charles Dupplin from specialist insurer Hiscox called the skull "another bold move" from Hirst. "This is a spectacular piece and undoubtedly the work with the highest intrinsic value in modern and contemporary art," he added. falls from art power top 10 13 Oct statue unveiled in London 22 May to curate London art show 03 Feb lay into Hirst exhibition 08 Apr 05 | Arts Hirst admits to 'silly' artworks 29 Mar 05 | Arts Hirst 'sorry' for rotting remains 03 Jun 04 | Gloucestershire The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6720029.stm | North Yorkshire | Ayckbourn to step back from work in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 15:55 GMT 16:55 UK to step back from work Sir Alan is one of the world's most successful living playwrights Playwright Sir Alan Ayckbourn is to step down as artistic director of the Stephen Joseph Theatre in Scarborough, North Yorkshire, after 37 years. Sir Alan is to quit his post next summer but will continue to direct his plays at the venue and will premiere any new work there. The 68-year-old, who suffered a stroke last year, has been artistic director of the theatre since 1971. A new artistic director will be appointed to plan the 2009/10 season. Chairman of the Stephen Joseph Theatre board, Sue Truefitt, said: "Over the last couple of years, Alan Ayckbourn's day-to-day involvement in the running of the Stephen Joseph Theatre has been decreasing, although his directing work has continued as normal." Ms Truefitt said Sir Alan would direct Relatively Speaking and A Trip to Scarborough in the forthcoming season and was planning for the 2008/9 season. "This decrease in his workload will lead to the appointment of a new artistic director in the summer of 2008, to plan the 2009/10 season", she said. "Alan intends to continue to direct revivals of his plays at the theatre as well as premiering any of his new work there." The playwright, whose work has been translated into 30 languages and is performed around the world, was knighted in 2007 for his services to theatre. sport, chat and more from the BBC website for North Yorkshire Sir Alan Ayckbourn suffers stroke 28 Feb Sir Alan Ayckbourn 28 Feb Apr 03 | Manchester Ayckbourn threatens London 'boycott' 24 Oct 02 | Arts Ayckbourn play opens new theatre 10 Jan 02 | Arts Two sides to Ayckbourn story 09 Aug 00 | Entertainment The NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Ayckbourn to step back from work Delay to Flying Scotsman overhaul Homes blacked out after car crash family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/6716621.stm | Polish subtitles on Welsh TV show News in video and audio in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 13:10 GMT 14:10 UK subtitles on Welsh TV show Pc Keith Sinclair, from Wrexham, will feature in the programme Welsh language channel S4C is to broadcast a current affairs programme with Polish subtitles. O Flaen Dy Lygaid (Before Your Eyes), which is produced by the BBC, is thought to be the first TV show in the UK to use subtitles in Polish. The documentary will focus on Poles who moved to Wales decades before thousands settled after their nation joined the European Union in 2004. S4C said the subtitles were a one-off and it had no plans to do it regularly. The arrival of so many Poles in the UK has led to other initiatives such as Wales' first Polish support centre, which opened in Llanelli last year. In north Wales, an estimated 10,000 Poles live in Wrexham alone, which has prompted the region's police force to recruit Polish-speaking officers. O Flaen Dy Lygaid producer Marc Edwards said: "Polish people in Wales helped us enormously in making the documentary and were thrilled we were taking an interest in their community," he said. "The idea for subtitles in Polish really came from them. They wanted the programme to be available to Polish expats all over the UK and we were very happy to help make that happen." Emlyn Penny Jones, S4C's head of content services added that the channel was "delighted" to be making "broadcasting history". The programme will be presented by Barbara Owsianka who lives near Bangor in north Wales. Mrs Owsianka was born and raised in London after her parents fled Poland after World War II. She married a Welshman and they now raise their two children in three languages - Polish, Welsh and English. Wrexham policeman, Keith Sinclair, who learned Polish to work with the growing immigrant community, will also feature in the programme. O Flaen Dy Lygaid is on S4C on Tuesday, 5 June at 2100 BST information from across the region Get all the latest from around the region Polish minister could boost flock 29 Mar 07 | Mid Wales Migrant worker numbers 'unknown' 06 Mar 07 | Wales Honour for Pc who learned Polish 24 Nov 06 | North East Wales O Flaen Dy Lygaid The deaths road 'not gritted' Death crash driver 'fell asleep' Water tank crashes onto baby pen family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/default.stm in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:51 GMT 17:51 UK than 260 complaints about Russell Brand's jokes at the Brit Awards are rejected by media watchdog Ofcom. Viewers complain over Brits jokes Russell Brand's colourful career Arctic Monkeys scoop Brits double socialite Paris Hilton turns herself in to authorities in Los Angeles after attending an awards ceremony. Dannii to become X Factor judge Singer Dannii Minogue and Grease is the Word panellist Brian Freidman join the judging panel on The X Factor. Michael cancels gig after crash Ayckbourn quits theatre role Pirates wins at MTV Movie Awards Gone With The Wind set for stage Live Earth switch-off is vetoed Chitty film car fetches $505,000 ALSO IN THE NEWS Tony Blair appears at the Royal Academy of Art - in the nude Preview the Royal Academy's Summer Exhibition 2007 Marc Almond returns with the first album since his horrific crash Film and music stars come out for the MTV Movie Awards VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Amsterdam's nude photo shoot enjoy chart success TV kidney donor show a hoax More Video / Audio News Entertainment news and gossip Lordi film 'gets state funding' Jackass star is sued over stunt Newman gives $10m to college No assault charges for Grant Estate sale for Mexican film star Rihanna thwarts Mutya challenge Jackson sale nears the $2m mark Full Glastonbury line-up released Bands mark Beatles anniversary Ben misses out on 'Joseph' final TV kidney competition was a hoax Male housemate joins Big Brother Polish subtitles on Welsh TV show Panel to pick Joseph school choir Elgar's 150th anniversary marked Hirst unveils £50m diamond skull Curtain down on Poppins musical Football painter wins competition PARIS GOES TO PRISON I'm going to do the time and I am going to do it the right way Paris Hilton puts on a brave face before going to jail Jackass star is sued over stunt TV kidney competition was a hoax Full Glastonbury line-up released Meet the Big Brother housemates Michael 'was on drugs' court told The Beatles' Sgt Pepper album celebrates 40 years Our generations - after 30 year gap The Who rock city stadium FROM OTHER BBC SITES Brit film-makers take a trip to the Cannes Film Festival ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6716561.stm star is sued over stunt in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 12:03 GMT 13:03 UK star is sued over stunt Johnny Knoxville starred in the film remake of The Dukes of Hazzard Jackass star Johnny Knoxville is being sued by an actor for $10.5m (£5.3m) over claims that he was not paid for doing a stunt which left him injured. Perry Caravello alleges that Knoxville, talk show host Jimmy Kimmel and radio star Adam Corolla, promised him $10m to put his genitals in a mousetrap. The legal action also claims he was humiliated when footage of the incident appeared on the internet. Knoxville, Kimmel and Corolla have yet to comment on the allegations. Mr Caravello claims that TV star Kimmel failed to pay him for his work on the 2003 film Windy City Heat. He also contends that Knoxville promised payment for promoting the film's DVD release on Corolla's radio show on the condition that he performed the mousetrap stunt. Legal papers filed at Los Angeles Superior Court stated that the actor "agreed to do so and, much to his emotional tranquillity and to his physical harm, was severely injured when the trap literally went on his manhood". He also said that the stunt was filmed without his permission, while the three men failed to pay him or provide an account of profits and royalties from DVD sales of the film. The TV series of Jackass, which was originally shown on MTV from 2000-2, was the career launch pad of actors including Knoxville, featuring the cast performing potentially self-harming stunts and pranks. Two Jackass movies have subsequently been released. film Jackass tops US charts 25 Sep ban' slap attack TV shows 12 May 05 | TV and Radio Warning over Jackass copycats 13 Jul 04 | Scotland MTV laughs off Jackass death hoax 01 May 02 | TV and Radio MTV's 25 years of non-stop hits 01 Aug Angeles Superior Court The to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6718391.stm Earth switch-off is vetoed in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 10:44 GMT 11:44 UK Earth switch-off is vetoed Madonna has written a song for the Live Earth gigs Al Gore's plan to have a symbolic switch-off of lights across the UK during the Live Earth gig in London has been vetoed by the National Grid. Madonna, James Blunt and Genesis have been lined up to play at the London leg of the global concert series to highlight climate change in July. But the National Grid said the switch-off stunt could disrupt power supplies across the country. A National Grid spokesman said they were "keen" for another symbolic idea. "The organisers had this idea and behaved responsibly by discussing it with us," he said. Al Gore hopes the global concerts will highlight climate change "We are used to dealing with surges in demand, as it happens every day around certain TV programmes. "But it's very difficult to forecast exactly what would happen in terms of demand. We would have had no idea how small or large it would be." More than 150 of the world's top musicians will take part in the concerts in the UK, America, Australia, Brazil, Japan, China, South Africa, Turkey and Germany. Organisers in New York are releasing more tickets for their show at the Giants Stadium at 1000 Eastern time (1400 GMT). More than 200,000 people registered for tickets to the concert at Wembley Stadium. Tickets for London cost £55 and the profits will go to organisations including the Alliance for Climate Protection, the Climate Group and Stop Climate Chaos. The BBC will broadcast the concerts on TV and radio in the UK. pens song for Live Earth 17 May Tap to play Live Earth gig 25 Apr sets Live Earth charity levy 18 Apr Earth gig registration opens 13 Apr heads UK Live Earth bill 10 Apr in hunt for Live Earth venue 29 Mar to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6718257.stm film 'gets state funding' in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 10:15 GMT 11:15 UK film 'gets state funding' The band have had three number one singles in Finland A horror film by 2006 Eurovision Song Contest winners Lordi has received 300,000 euros (£200,000) funding from the Finnish government, reports say. Dark Floors, which will feature the rock band's four members, is being shot in Finland at a cost of 4.2m euros (£2.84m), according to Screen Daily. The film, which features a largely Finnish cast, will premiere in the country on 8 February. Lordi recently introduced the film at the Cannes Film Festival. The movie, which is currently being filmed in northern Finland, is described by the band's lead singer, Mr Lordi, as a "traditional modern horror" that will feature monsters and "horrific scenes". It is being shot in English and will tell the story of a monster attack, with an autistic child the only person who can save the world. Mr Lordi, real name Tomi Putaansuu, added that the band's latex masks and monstrous costumes were derived from horror films so it was "kind of natural" for them to make their own movie. The group have branched out into other areas, including a Lordi-themed restaurant and a Lordi cola drink, since winning the Eurovision Song Contest with Hard Rock Hallelujah. rockers make horror film 21 May named after rock group Lordi 17 Aug after magazine unmasks Lordi 31 May square named after Lordi 22 May 06 | Europe How horror rock conquered Europe 21 May to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6714025.stm assault charges for Hugh Grant in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 19:47 GMT 20:47 UK assault charges for Hugh Grant Hugh Grant will not face criminal charges Actor Hugh Grant will not be charged over claims he threw a tub of baked beans at a photographer, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said. The star will also not be prosecuted in connection with allegations that he kicked the same photographer. The incidents were alleged to have taken place near Mr Grant's west London home in April. Ian Whittaker said he was attempting to get pictures of Mr Grant's former partner Liz Hurley, who lives nearby. Mr Grant, 46, was arrested over the assault allegation on 24 April and bailed until May. But a CPS spokeswoman said that there was "insufficient evidence" to charge him over the kicking allegation. "We have advised the police that there is insufficient evidence to charge Hugh Grant with any offence in relation to an allegation that he kicked a photographer," she said. "This is because there were clear discrepancies between the accounts of independent witnesses and those of the photographers involved. "In relation to a second allegation involving a take away food container, the CPS decided that a prosecution would not be in the public interest." She added that "the minimal nature of the alleged assault and the lack of pre-meditation on the part of Mr Grant" were also among the reasons for the decision not to prosecute over the bean-throwing claim. Grant arrested over 'attack' 26 Apr Grant accepts libel damages 27 Apr Grant and Jemima Khan split 17 Feb to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6714873.stm to pick Joseph school choir in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 12:30 GMT 13:30 UK to pick Joseph school choir Hundreds of people were voting every minute The BBC has decided a panel of experts will now choose the winner of a school choir contest that was supposed to be judged by a public vote. Choirs uploaded videos of themselves on to a website, in a contest running alongside TV show Any Dream Will Do. People could then rate the choirs online. But the BBC said the process had been compromised by evidence of block voting and technical problems. A panel will choose the winner from 843 entries to perform at the show's final. The BBC had accused some online voters of unfairly trying to boost their choir's chances. The winner of the contest was due to be announced on the Any Dream Will Do website on 31 May but this has now been postponed. Andrew Lloyd Webber will help choose the winner It is not yet known when the winning choir will be notified but it will still perform during the show's final on 9 June as originally planned. The Any Dream Will Do talent contest is seeking someone to star in the lead role of Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat in London's West End. The 843 choir entries will be whittled down to 20 by the same expert panel who selected the Joseph finalists from regional heats, which includes the show's vocal coach and judge, Zoe Tyler. The winner will then by chosen by Andrew Lloyd Webber and fellow composer Howard Goodall. On the website, schools had been ranked on the average rating they got, from five for excellent to one for poor - not simply by how many votes they picked up. Some people might have misunderstood what they had to do. "When you rate, you need only click on one multicoloured coat," the website explained. Graham Norton (centre) hosts Any Dream Will Do "So, for example, if you wish to rate the choir a four, you click on the fourth coat along in the row. You should not click coats one, two, three and four." But there were also claims that people not only repeatedly gave their own choir the highest rating, but also repeatedly gave a low rating to competitors. In their "frequently asked questions", the producers said the contest had been "far more popular than we anticipated", with hundreds of votes per minute straining the database. Richard Williams, who is in charge of the show's website, told Radio 4 programme You and Yours that they were "caught short". "We're a bit embarrassed that we couldn't cope with the popularity of it," he said. A statement on the show's website said: "This is our first experience of running a website competition of this kind which has attracted such an unprecedented response, so viewers can be assured that lessons have been learned and this will not happen in the future. "We sincerely apologise to the school choirs and those who have voted who will be disappointed with this outcome at such a late stage," it continued. In online forums, comments included: "My respect for the BBC has plummeted beyond belief!" and "The whole thing has been one disaster after another, only hope they apologise on the TV show to the thousands of kids who feel let down." Joseph was written as a school musical and remains enormously popular with children. It was first performed in 1968 but it is estimated that there are still nearly 500 school or amateur productions each year in the UK alone. over Joseph choir contest 25 May 07 | Education Lloyd Webber's Saturday night fever 24 May gig to showcase new Joseph 05 May watch musical wannabes 08 Apr search for new West End Joseph 19 Dec Dream Will Do to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6711385.stm mark Sgt Pepper anniversary in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 12:03 GMT 13:03 UK mark Sgt Pepper anniversary The Kaiser Chiefs recorded Getting Better for the Radio 2 session Contemporary musicians have recorded their own versions of songs from the Beatles' Sgt Pepper's album to mark 40 years since it was released. Oasis, Razorlight, Kaiser Chiefs, Bryan Adams and The Magic Numbers were among those who took part. Geoff Emerick - the engineer in charge of the original 1967 sessions - used the same equipment to record the new versions. The recording sessions will be aired on Radio 2 on 2 June. The programme, which was recorded in two parts, hears from the artists about the importance of the album. The second part will be broadcast 16 June. Emerick used the original analogue 4-track equipment to demonstrates the techniques employed for the recording at Abbey Road studios back in 1967. Solo artist Adams recorded the title track, Sgt Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. Travis worked with the original Sgt Pepper engineer Geoff Emerick The singer said the album was one of the most "influential" records as he is "still drawn to the songs today". He added: "Those songs that they have on that album are beautifully crafted, beautifully recorded and we'll never get close to that." Razorlight performed the track With A Little Help From My Friends, The Fray covered Fixing A Hole with the Magic Numbers playing She's Leaving Home. Getting Better was sung by the Kaiser Chiefs. Speaking of the original recordings, lead singer Ricky Wilson said: "I do think because you had to work a lot harder for it, the results were a lore more astonishing." BBC 6 Music has also commemorated the anniversary by looking at some of the myths that surround the album. Items include a trip to Battersea Dogs Home to find out if the group really did record sounds only audible to dogs on the out groove of the album. An interview with Lucy Vodden who went to school with John Lennon's son Julian will also be broadcast. Lennon said the song, Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds, was inspired by a picture his son did of her in class, and not the drug LSD. are your memories of Sergeant Pepper? 01 Jun 07 | Have Your Say The wonderful world of Sgt Pepper 01 Jun discuss hit Beatles album 31 May says Lennon 'was best' 25 May stars to recreate Sgt Pepper 06 Apr to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6718815.stm to become X Factor judge in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 12:06 GMT 13:06 UK to become X Factor judge Dannii Minogue has scored 13 UK top 20 hit singles Singer Dannii Minogue and choreographer Brian Friedman are to be judges on the next series of The X Factor. The pop star and Friedman - a panellist on current talent show Grease is the Word - will fill the gap left by the departure of Louis Walsh. They will join long-standing judges Simon Cowell and Sharon Osbourne on the ITV programme. Earlier this year it was announced that Dermot O'Leary would present the next two series, replacing Kate Thornton. Minogue, 35, who has scored a string of chart hits, said: "I can't wait to be part of The X Factor team and getting up close and personal on a daily basis with Simon. "Just because I'm the new girl, I won't be a pushover - he'll soon see my competitive streak." Brian Friedman (second right) is a judge on ITV's Grease is the Word Friedman, who has worked with Britney Spears, said he was "flattered to be offered such a coveted position". ITV's director of comedy and entertainment, Paul Jackson, said: "We're delighted we've managed to secure two new judges who between them have such a wealth of talent and experience." The programme's format is also being revamped for the next series, with the introduction of a new performance category. The age limit for hopefuls has also been lowered. to present X Factor show 30 Mar to step down from X Factor 08 Mar Factor winner in US record deal 09 Feb signs three-year ITV deal 19 Dec crowned winner of X Factor 17 Dec to become X Factor judge family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
