http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6706805.stm | Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt GMT 07:58 meeting condemns Japan hunt Environment correspondent, BBC News website, Anchorage, Alaska Sea Shepherd protesters disrupted Japan's Antarctic hunt this year The International Whaling Commission's annual meeting has passed a resolution condemning Japan's scientific hunting programme in the Antarctic. Japan catches nearly 1,000 whales there each year in the name of research. After an acrimonious debate, a large number of countries refused to vote, saying the resolution was illegitimate. There was, however, consensus support for a motion censuring environmental groups which try to hinder Japan's Antarctic programme. Both Greenpeace and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society have tried to block the programme in recent years, culminating in a damaging collision between Japanese and Sea Shepherd vessels in the recent Antarctic season for which each party blames the other. It was just about the only sign of common ground in a day marked by the entrenched positions and political posturing which has bedevilled this organisation for years. 'Stain on the commission' Any International Whaling Commission (IWC) member is entitled to hunt whales for scientific research, but anti-whaling countries view the size and scope of Japan's programmes in the Antarctic and north Pacific as going far beyond what was envisaged when the IWC's constitution, the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, was drawn up in 1946. Resolutions calling for a halt have materialised regularly. Japan is not obliged to comply with the IWC vote "Every scientific catch is a stain on the record of this commission," said Monaco's whaling commissioner Frederic Briand. "The best thing Japan could do is to reduce the size of its scientific whaling programmes around the world." The IWC's scientific committee recently reviewed Japan's Antarctic programme, and New Zealand's conservation minister Chris Carter was not too impressed with their conclusions. Japanese hunters "killed 7,000 whales over 18 years, and couldn't even decide how many whales there are," he fumed. This was in marked contrast to the St Kitts commissioner Cedric Liburd, who said: "This research provided significant data enabling us to understand the structure and abundance of whale populations. Every scientific catch is a stain on the record of this commission "I find [this resolution] extremely disturbing, vexatious and in some ways irrelevant," he said. "It is frivolous, devoid of action and meaningless." Virtually all of the pro-whaling bloc abstained from the vote, leading to a majority of 40 to 2. It makes no material difference, as Japan is not obliged to comply. Nevertheless, it is viewed by environmental groups as an important weapon in the battle for hearts and minds. Environmental organisations Greenpeace and Sea Shepherd came under fire themselves in a resolution co-ordinated by Japan and New Zealand. It was the only concrete sign so far of the common ground which both sides said they were seeking before the meeting convened. People on both sides of the debate talk about their views The resolution, which says that member governments "do not condone, and in fact condemn, any actions that are a risk to human life and property in relation to the activities of vessels at sea," passed by consensus. "We maintain that our protests are peaceful and non-violent," commented Shane Rattenbury of Greenpeace International. "Greenpeace has 35 years of history of being non-violent; but I'm sure the Japanese government will attempt to wave it in our face and say 'you shouldn't be undertaking these protests'." Sea Shepherd's record is rather different, having been implicated in attacks on whaling vessels spanning more than two decades. It is notable that while Greenpeace is allowed into the meeting here, Sea Shepherd is not. Parts of the resolution can also be interpreted as a rebuke to Japan, particularly an injunction to "have regard to protecting... the fragile Antarctic environment." The meeting looked like running late into its penultimate evening, with several major issues unresolved. AND AUDIO NEWS Actress Miranda Richardson supports a total ban A proposal for a South Atlantic whale sanctuary is defeated Deadlock at Greenland whale plan Anti-whaling lobby rebuffs Japan Conciliation talk at whaling meet Cultural claim to whale hunting Cruelty and the kitchen Under the skin of whaling science Temples of the whale Did Greens help kill the whale? Guide to the Great Whales Moving whaling debate forward meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6708043.stm | Big Brother launch watched by 6m GMT 13:16 Brother launch watched by 6m Some of the housemates were booed as they entered the house An average of 6.2 million viewers tuned in to watch the launch of the eighth series of Channel 4's Big Brother, according to overnight figures. Audience numbers were down by 800,000 compared with 7 million viewers for the start of the seventh series in 2006. Following the end of ITV's British Soap Awards and BBC One's The Apprentice, the audience peaked at 8 million. It is the first time an all-female house has launched the show, but a male housemate will join them shortly. Viewing figures were well above average for the C4 time slot, with the reality show drawing 26 per cent of available viewers. Channel 4's commissioning editor for Big Brother, Angela Jain, said: "This heralds a fantastic start to Big Brother." The show opened with an official apology, ordered by Ofcom, over C4's handling of the race row involving celebrity contestants Jade Goody, Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara and their treatment of Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty. House rules for this series have been updated to warn against bullying and to make clear that offensive remarks on the grounds of race, religion or sexuality are unacceptable. Carole received the biggest cheer of the night from waiting crowds The 11 contestants include the first set of twins ever to enter the house, a member of the Women's Institute and a Victoria Beckham wannabe. Charley, an unemployed former lap dancer, was greeted with boos and chants of "get a job" by the crowd as she arrived at the house, at Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire. Political protester Carole received the loudest cheer of the night. A single man is expected to enter the house on Friday to join the contest for the £100,000 prize. It is rumoured that the female contestants will choose from three possible contenders. Brother picks all-woman house 31 Meet the Big Brother housemates 31 In pictures: BB housemates arrive 31 Pictures Ethics of reality TV 30 'No profit' from Big Brother vote 29 Big Brother race row transcript 24 Big Brother rapped over race row 24 musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6707315.stm | Middle East | Hezbollah condemns Hariri court GMT 16:52 condemns Hariri court Hariri's killing sparked protests that pressured Syria to leave Lebanon Lebanese opposition party Hezbollah has condemned a UN Security Council vote to set up a tribunal to try suspects in the killing of Rafik Hariri. The ex-PM and 22 other people died in a huge car bombing in Beirut in 2005. A UN inquiry has suggested that Syrian and Lebanese intelligence forces played a role - which Syria denies. The pro-Syrian Hezbollah group, which has previously blocked a parliamentary vote on the plan, said the UN decision violated Lebanese sovereignty. "The resolution, as much as it constitutes a violation of the Lebanese state and an attack on its internal affairs, it is contrary to legal rules and the charters and principles of the United Nations and the objectives for which it was established to achieve," the statement said. The resolution was "illegal and illegitimate at the national and international level", the group added. Lebanon's pro-Syrian president, Emile Lahoud, has said he fears the tribunal will cause fresh division in the country. Syria has also condemned the decision. Hezbollah's opposition to the tribunal has so far meant that Lebanese PM Fouad Siniora has been unable to get a vote backing the plan through parliament. The UN resolution gives the Lebanese parliament one more opportunity to back the plan. The ratification of the international tribunal does not, and should not, be considered as a victory for one party over another Lebanese party If the parliament does not ratify the tribunal by 10 June, the Security Council may independently authorise a tribunal, as it did in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. The issue of the tribunal has been at the centre of a political crisis in Lebanon which has seen the opposition withdraw its ministers from the cabinet, and attempt to bring down the government through street protests. The Syrian ambassador at the UN, Bashar Jaafari, condemned the UN vote. "Definitely this is something that goes against the interests of the Lebanese people and Lebanon as a whole," he told reporters after the vote. The Syrian government has in the past threatened not to co-operate with an international tribunal. NEXT STEPS FOR TRIBUNAL Lebanon must ratify tribunal by 10 June, or UN could push ahead regardless May take about a year to establish court Tribunal to be held in undetermined neutral location Syria has threatened not to co-operate with the tribunal The resolution was adopted by 10 votes to zero, with five abstentions from Russia, China, South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar. Syria has always strongly denied any involvement in Mr Hariri's death, but in 2005 it withdrew its troops from Lebanon after a presence of 29 years, following massive domestic and international pressure after the assassination of Mr Hariri. Four pro-Syrian Lebanese generals have been under arrest for more than a year, accused of involvement. The Syrian government position is that the tribunal will be a violation of Lebanese sovereignty and that it will further undermine stability there. As far as its alleged involvement in the assassination is concerned, Syria says that if one of its citizens was to be formally accused of involvement, that person could be tried only by Syrian courts. Saad Hariri, the son of the assassinated politician, said the tribunal was a turning point for the country and "an opportunity for all Lebanese to unite". Speaking live on Lebanese television, he said the time had come for justice. Some of the abstaining ambassadors at the Security Council objected to the reference in the resolution to Chapter Seven of the UN Charter, used in cases of threats to international peace and security. The issue of the tribunal has caused deep divisions in Lebanon However, the US and its allies argued that only Chapter Seven resolutions were legally enforceable. There is a hope in Lebanon that the resolution will end a long, sad history of unpunished political assassinations, says the BBC's Kim Ghattas in Beirut. Reporting from the Damascus, Magdi Abdel Hadi says the new resolution is likely to increase the tension between Syria and the Western-backed Lebanese government of Mr Siniora. It is also likely to increase polarisation inside Lebanon itself. People in Lebanon are on edge after a series of bomb attacks last week and an ongoing bloody standoff in northern Lebanon between the army and militants from the Fatah al-Islam group. A Lebanese army spokesman said a soldier was killed on Thursday by sniper fire from Fatah al-Islam militants inside the Nahr al-Bared Palestinian refugee camp. At least 80 people have been killed in the fighting, including 35 soldiers, 20 civilians and at least 25 militants. condemns Hariri court Press divided on Hariri tribunal UN approves Hariri murder court Hariri probe 'progress on motive' The US, Iran and Saudi Arabia battle to gain influence in Lebanon. UN tries to bridge Lebanon divide Protests take their toll The Lebanese crisis explained Mid-East crisis: Facts and figures Profile: Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah Lebanese viewpoints on strike Syria Gate (official site) MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Nuclear watchdog's attack warning
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6707593.stm | Number of failing schools up 5% GMT 12:00 of failing schools up 5% Some 1% of schools are judged to be failing The number of schools in England judged to be failing has risen by 5% since last term, education inspectors say. By the end of March this year, 256 schools were in "special measures" compared to just 243 at the end of December - a rise of 13 schools. Ofsted said the rise was partly because there were fewer schools in a position to be removed from this category. Schools in special measures can be closed if they do not improve fast enough. Just 1% are in this category. Schools that used to escape closer attention may now find themselves in special measures By the end of the spring term, 179 primary schools were in special measures, eight more than at the end of December. Four more secondaries were in special measures, taking the total to 52, with one more special needs school also in the failing category. Eleven special schools were judged to be failing, up one from December. The rest were pupil referral units - 14 of which were judged to be failing. A spokeswoman for Ofsted said: "The number of schools removed from special measures in the spring term 2007 was lower than in previous terms because very few schools were made subject to special measures in the spring and summer terms 2005. "It normally takes around two years for schools to improve sufficiently to be removed from special measures." However the most recent increase follows a rise of 16.8% - or 35 schools - from 208 at the end of August 2006 to 243 at the end of December. Schools Minister Jim Knight said the government had halved the number of failing schools since 1997-1998. He also highlighted the fact that the figures show that compared with last term overall there are fewer schools in categories of concern. Until August 2005 categories of concern were those in special measures, with serious weakness, underachieving schools and secondary schools with inadequate sixth forms. From September 2005 these categories changed to those in special measures and those requiring significant improvement. Mr Knight added: "This is a promising trend despite the fact we raised the bar on inspection in autumn 2005. "The new, tougher inspection framework means there is no room for 'coasting schools'. "Schools that used to escape closer attention may now find themselves in special measures. "Our reforms to tackle failing schools demand radical action from the school and the local authority to turn the school around quickly." Shadow education secretary David Willetts said the figures were more evidence of the "pressing need" to focus on raising standards in state schools. "It demonstrates why it is right to concentrate on creating more good schools so we can improve opportunities for all pupils, particularly those from poorer backgrounds, who are currently being failed by the system," he added. Liberal Democrat education spokeswoman Sarah Teather said the government was running out of excuses for its inability to deal with failing schools. She added that schools with more underachieving pupils should be given extra funds so they have the resources to deal with those pupils' additional needs. power to search for knives Number of failing schools up 5% Enforced schooling to 18 opposed
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/internationals/6702983.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Internationals | Terry determined to save McClaren GMT 12:30 determined to save McClaren Terry (left) will lead out England against Brazil and Estonia England v Brazil (Fri 1 June) Live on BBC ONE from 1930 BST & Radio Five Live Estonia v England (Wed 6 June) Live on Sky Sports and BBC Radio Five Live, highlights on BBC ONE England skipper John Terry has admitted coach Steve McClaren could lose his job if they lose in Estonia. England face Brazil in a friendly on Friday before a must-win Euro 2008 qualifier in Estonia five days later. "Will there be a question mark over him if England lose? Possibly. But we are not thinking like that," Terry said. "We need to go there and get a win. It is as simple as that. We are fully behind the manager and we are going to do our best to keep him in his job." Interview: England captain John Terry Interview: England striker Michael Owen England head to Estonia for Wednesday's game in fourth place in Group E and knowing only a win will do after some disappointing results. Your thoughts on Terry's comments Terry added: "We need to go there and perform. The Brazil game is a chance for us to get our sharpness back and make sure we are ready for the game on Wednesday." Terry is pleased to have David Beckham - the player he replaced as skipper after the World Cup last summer - back in the squad. He said: "It is great to have him back. We all know his quality and he has brought that into training and we look forward to seeing him training. "It is not strange for me. We are all important players in the squad and it is just great to have him back. "I had a few chats with Steve and the form he has been in is exceptional since he came back from injury. It couldn't go unnoticed. The manager has brought him in and rightly so." I will stand or fall by this decision Steve McClaren on Beckham's recall McClaren has praised David Beckham for earning a recall to the national squad. Real Madrid midfielder Beckham, 32, was named in a McClaren squad for the first time - his first inclusion since the 2006 World Cup. McClaren said: "He showed great hunger and desire to get back. He didn't moan, just got his head down and worked hard. "I have not made this decision for anyone, it is about form. He is the fittest I have seen for a long time." Beckham last played for England in the World Cup quarter-final defeat against Portugal last July, after which he resigned the captaincy and has not been selected in any of McClaren's nine previous squads. He was also dropped by Real Madrid in January after agreeing to join Major League Soccer side LA Galaxy when his contract with the Spanish side runs out at the end of the season. But coach Fabio Capello eventually recalled Beckham and he has produced some stunning displays to lead Real to the top of La Liga, with two games left. McClaren added: "You've got to respect the work Fabio Capello is doing at Real Madrid. "He has had the same problems as me. He had no hesitation about bringing David back when he was on form and that has changed the fortunes of Real Madrid. "I would be very foolish to ignore that. I have played against them a couple of times and scored both times Michael Owen on facing Brazil "After one match, Capello said David ran 15 kilometres and the next highest figure was 12km. In another he ran 80 yards in the last minute to create a winning goal. "I will stand or fall by this decision but anyone who has watched David closely over the last few weeks and months must understand why he is in the squad." Also returning to the England squad is Michael Owen, who has been ruled out since the World Cup after injury. The Newcastle striker is delighted to be back playing for his country and taking on the might of Brazil at Wembley. He said: "I feel fine. It feels great to be back in the fold. I played in the England B game last week but obviously this is the real stuff now. "The way Brazil play, the stars they produce, their kit - everything about them means you couldn't wish for a more exciting game to start off with at Wembley. "I have played against them a couple of times and scored both times." Owen scored in a 1-1 friendly draw with Brazil in one of the last England's last games at the old Wembley stadium in 2000 and in their World Cup quarter-final defeat in 2002. He also scored against Brazil for England Under-15s on his first ever appearance at Wembley. Shorey and Brown set for England 29 recalled to England squad 26 are Brazil so good? 31 on Beckham and England 31 Pick your England XI 26 End of the road for England 29 on the BBC Your say - 606 OTHER SPORT SITES Terry Hopes To Ease Pressure On Boss - 1 hr ago Terry backing for beleagured boss - 1 hr ago Terry: We're fighting for McClaren's job - 3 hrs ago Terry's pressure point - 4 hrs ago Royals aim to head off Hammers hopes - 5 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6709209.stm | EMI strikes a deal with YouTube GMT 17:09 strikes a deal with YouTube EMI bands such as the Rolling Stones will be available on YouTube EMI has signed a deal with YouTube that will allow its users to access videos by EMI artists. It means all four of the world's major music firms are now YouTube partners. The terms of the agreement should eventually allow users to incorporate recordings by EMI artists into their own projects. The deal follows a string of lawsuits by companies who accuse YouTube of allowing its users to pirate their copyrighted works. The biggest threat comes from entertainment giant Viacom Media which is suing YouTube for $1bn (£505m). The US group - which owns MTV and Nickelodeon - claims that the website uses its shows illegally. "We're excited to add EMI Music's stellar roster of artists' content to our site and make it available to our community," said Chad Hurley, chief executive of YouTube. EMI and YouTube have agreed to work together to develop ways in which EMI-owned recordings can be incorporated into user generated content by YouTube users. News of the deal comes just 10 days after EMI agreed to be taken over by private equity group Terra Firma for £2.4bn. Google bought the video-sharing website for $1.65bn (£883m) in October 2006. TV to show YouTube content 31 YouTube site 'blocked' in Morocco 29 Music giant EMI agrees takeover 21 YouTube fights Viacom legal bid 01 EMI 'opens its books to suitors' 18 Cost-cutting success bolsters EMI 18 Apr 07 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6707011.stm | Edinburgh and East | Witness appeal after hit-and-run GMT 14:31 appeal after hit-and-run Four-year-old Olivia Donachie was killed instantly in the crash. Police have urged witnesses to a hit-and-run in Edinburgh which killed four-year-old Olivia Donachie to contact them. Officers have been hunting for a man who fled the scene of the accident in the Colinton area of the city at about 1530 BST on Wednesday. Olivia's mother Rachel, 33, is stable but critically ill in hospital. A man who was detained by members of the public at the scene of the accident has been released by police. Eyewitnesses said a green Cherokee Jeep had been involved in two collisions with other vehicles shortly before the fatal accident. The earlier crashes occurred in the area within a 15-minute period. When I got close up to the vehicle I could see that it was a most horrendous accident Officers said the first crash happened in Lanark Road at the Gillespie Crossroads and the second one in Bridge Road in nearby Colinton Village. No-one was injured in the Gillespie Crossroads incident but two women suffered minor injuries as a result of the collision in Bridge Road. An incident room has been established at Gayfield Square Police Station. Chief Inspector Paul Bullen, of Lothian and Borders Police, appealed for information, especially from bus passengers. He said: "We know that when the fatal crash happened there were two Lothian Transport buses, numbers 10 and 16 nearby and we would like to hear from anyone on them who may have seen what happened or have any information about the incident. "When the collision happened at Gillespie Crossroads there was a number 45 bus nearby and those passengers should come forward. "We would also like to hear from anyone who may have seen the fatal crash yesterday afternoon or saw a green Cherokee jeep driving erratically and has any information about what happened." The woman and her daughter were struck near a wall only yards from their home in Westgarth Avenue. One of those first to arrive after the accident was resident Gordon Reynolds, who described the scene as shocking. He said: "When I got close up to the vehicle I could see that it was a most horrendous accident. "There was what I took to be the body of a very young child pinned, massively hemmed in at the front of the vehicle." Scenes of crime, CID and forensic officers have been examining the vehicle and the crash site. She was a wonderful, innocent, four-year-old girl who loved everything that she did at nursery Bonaly Primary School head teacher Gordon Robertson, the head teacher of Bonaly Primary School, where Olivia attended nursery, said her death had left everyone at the school devastated. "She was a wonderful, innocent, four-year-old girl who loved everything that she did at nursery," he said. "She was so full of joy and so popular with her classmates and the staff. "Our thoughts are with the whole Donachie family and we are praying for Olivia's mum Rachel, who is still in hospital." Rev George Whyte, the minister of Colinton, said the community was in shock over what has happened. "This is a quiet family community where people walk around and know each other," he said. "Everyone feels devastated about what has happened." Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Lothian and Borders Police on AND AUDIO NEWS Forensic officers search for evidence at the scene Child killed in city hit-and-run 30 and East Lothian and Borders Police EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Witness appeal after hit-and-run OAP billed for home's demolition Injured quad bike boy abandoned
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/internationals/6708553.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Internationals | Worthington set to be NI manager GMT 14:58 set to be NI manager Nigel Worthington played 66 times for Northern Ireland Nigel Worthington will be unveiled as the new Northern Ireland manager on Friday, BBC Sport understands. The 66-times capped former defender is the Irish Football Association's choice to succeed Lawrie Sanchez who resigned to take charge of Fulham last month. The 45-year-old has previously managed Blackpool and Norwich City and has just completed a spell in temporary charge of Championship side Leicester City. It is unclear if the appointment goes beyond the Euro 2008 qualifying series. Worthington's first game in charge will be against Liechtenstein at Windsor Park in August. Northern Ireland are in with a chance of qualifying for a major championship for the first time in over 20 years. Is Worthington the right choice for Northern Ireland? They head Group F on 13 points following the superb victory against Sweden in March. The IFA Executive is expected to be asked to ratify the appointment on Friday morning ahead of a media conference and a backroom team will then be announced. Worthington began his career as a left-back with Ballymena United in the Irish League in 1979 and went on to play at full-time professional level for Notts County, Sheffield Wednesday, Leeds United, Stoke City and Blackpool. He spent ten years at Sheffield Wednesday and was a member of the Owls side that won the League Cup and promotion to the top flight in 1990-91. Two years later, Worthington and his teammates were losing finalists in both the League Cup and FA Cup. The highlights of his international career included being part of the 1986 World Cup squad in Mexico and a spell as captain under manager Bryan Hamilton. He managed Blackpool from 1997 to 1999 and was at the helm at Norwich City from 2000 to 2006, guiding the Canaries to promotion to the Premiership in 2003-2004. The Carrow Road club was relegated the following season and Worthington's reign ended after a poor run of results in October, 2006. He was appointed caretaker boss of Leicester earlier this year but failed to secure the permanent appointment. New NI manager set to be revealed 30 players out of NI running 23 rush to appoint new NI manager 15 plays down N Ireland link 14 starts for new NI boss 11 upset at Sanchez departure 11 quits NI for Fulham post 11 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6708141.stm | Increase in anti-terror targets GMT 14:12 in anti-terror targets BBC News home affairs Counter-terror police are stopping and searching more people Counter-terror police have recorded a 37% increase in "suspicious reconnaissance" of potential targets in the first four months of 2007. Metropolitan Police commanders said the "undiminished" threat level justified the continued use of random stop-and-search powers. But they accepted the reasons for almost 23,000 stops under anti-terror laws in London needed more explaining. Campaigners say anti-terrorism stop and searches "criminalise" communities. However, the Home Office may expand the powers yet further. ANTI-TERRORISM STOPS AND SEARCHES 22,672 from Sept 05 to Oct 06 16% of stops Asian In February London police came under fire from their watchdog, the Metropolitan Police Authority, in a major report into the effect of counter-terrorism policing on the capital. The watchdog found that the force's use of special anti-terror stop and search powers were doing "untold harm" to communities in the capital, in particularly Muslims. Under Section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000, police officers may randomly stop someone without reasonable suspicion, providing the area has been designated a likely target for an attack. The power is currently in force across the whole of London. Under Section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000 police officers may randomly stop someone without reasonable suspicion, providing the area has been designated a likely target for an attack. The power is currently in force across the whole of London. But coming under fire for the use of the power, senior officers told the watchdog that the threat to the UK from terrorism remained "undiminished" - and that police had to use as broad a range of tools as possible. Commander John McDowell, the Met's deputy national co-ordinator for counter-terrorism in the UK, said he agreed with analysis that the threat had worsened. "There have been public pronouncements that the threat has grown in volume and I would concur with that," he said. "Since 2005 we have seen an increase in activity and an increase in the gradient of the graph." Commander McDowell said that the first four months of 2007 had seen the police record a 37% increase in what it classed as suspicious reconnaissance - incidents that may be the first stage in planning an attack on the public. He cautioned that this increase in reporting may be partly attributable to improved intelligence gathering as the security services expand counter-terrorism operations. Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman of the Met Police said the figure showed why officers were right to continue to use the Section 44 powers. WHERE SEC 44 STOPS HAPPEN 23% Outside Govt buildings, iconic sites, tourist attractions While police could never be certain that a stop directly reduced the threat of a specific potential attack, he said it was important in a wider counter-terrorism context. "What we do know is the mode of behaviour around a terrorist," he said. "If they feel that they could be stopped and searched under these powers, they could be prevented [from attacking]. What I don't know is how many are truly prevented." Assistant Commissioner Hayman said that he accepted some of the criticisms of how the powers had been deployed - in particularly the lack of public information on who was being stopped. He said the force would introduce a new rule book for officers involved in Section 44 stops - and the Met would also build a publicity campaign to explain to key communities why police believed the power was necessary. Some officers were "unsure" of how the powers should be used, according to the Met's report into their use. The defence of the powers came days after the Home Office said it was considering introducing a wider "stop and question" law. The new power would give police an automatic right to stop and question anyone in the UK about suspected terrorism, building on the Section 44 power currently in force. The proposal immediately drew fire from civil liberties groups and Muslim campaigners who predicted it would criminalise entire communities. features and more from the BBC website for London More stop and quiz terror powers 27 in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/m/man_utd/6707995.stm BBC SPORT | Football | My Club | Man Utd | Man Utd seal deal for Hargreaves GMT 12:16 Utd seal deal for Hargreaves Manchester United have targeted Hargreaves for a year Manchester United have confirmed that England midfielder Owen Hargreaves will join them from Bayern Munich on 1 July. United have not yet disclosed the fee for the 26-year-old but it is believed to be in the region of £17m. Hargreaves has agreed personal terms and passed a medical so now he only has to officially put pen to paper on what is expected to be a five-year deal. "Owen will formally sign his contract when he returns from a holiday at the end of June," read a United statement. Where would Hargreaves fit into your United XI? Hargreaves, who is taking a family break in his native Canada, has been a long-time target for United. The Premiership champions failed with bids to sign him last summer and in January. He enjoyed an illustrious 10 seasons at Bayern, winning six league titles and the 2001 Champions League. Now we're ready to attack on four fronts But his final season was plagued by injury and ended with Bayern finishing fourth in the Bundesliga, thereby missing out on Champions League qualification. Hargreaves had a four-month lay-off at the start of the campaign because of a broken leg and went on to play in only nine league games. He will also miss England's matches against Brazil and Estonia in June because of a knee problem. The announcement of Hargreaves' arrival at Old Trafford comes less than 24 hours after it was revealed that United had agreed "in principle" to sign Brazilian midfielder Anderson, 19, from FC Porto and Portuguese winger Nani, 20, from Sporting Lisbon. The deal for the duo could amount to a total of £30m. Summer transfers in photos 31 Man Utd swoop for Anderson & Nani 31 Utd Giggs ends international career 30 close to Man Utd move 29 Utd Hargreaves hints at Man Utd deal 21 Utd Ferguson plots next move 09 Utd Scholes earns Hargreaves praise 01 Utd Hargreaves set to discuss future 13 Apr 07 | Europe Hargreaves bullish on qualifying 26 Mar back in Bayern defeat 03 Feb 07 | Europe Bayern hold off Hargreaves sale 07 Jan 07 | Europe 09 Jan 07 | Football Football on the BBC Man Utd fans' views on 606 BBC Where I Live - Manchester OTHER SPORT SITES United seal Hargreaves deal - 43 mins ago Man Utd confirm Hargreaves signing - 2 hrs ago United go big on Nani and Anderson - 3 hrs ago Sepp Blatter re-elected as Fifa president for a third term - 3 hrs ago United seal signing of Hargreaves - 3 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6708375.stm | GMT 14:32 maps from Google could be available offline Google has launched a tool designed to make it easier for computer users to use online applications offline. One of the key limitations of web services such as e-mail, word processing and calendars, is that they require a net connection to function. Gears allows access to online data and applications inside the web browser when offline. The tool was launched at Google's global developer day, with 5,000 coders attending seminars worldwide. Google Gears is an open source plug-in for browsers, which the firm hopes will lead to the creation of new web standards. The firm wants many of the people attending its developers conference to use the Gears tools, which are free to use, to adapt their own applications for offline usage. Using Gears, online data that is usually held on web servers can be stored offline on an individual's computer, and then synchronised when the user logs back on to the web. Chris Prince, the engineer leading the Gears project, told the conference in London: "We want a seamless experience between offline and online." "This fills a gap for us," said Jeff Huber, a vice president of engineering at Google. "The internet is great, but you can't always be plugged in to it." Initially, Google's RSS feed reader application - for reading news and blogs - will work offline, but the company plans to add other programmes, Mr Huber said. A word processor with less functionality than WordPad isn't going to upset anyone's business model, online or off Michael Gartenberg, Jupiter Research He said Google's e-mail, calendar, word processing and spreadsheet programmes were logical candidates for offline access. Gears works in most of the leading web browsers, such as Firefox and Internet Explorer, and will soon work with Safari and Opera. "With Google Gears we're tackling a key limitation of the browser in order to make it a stronger platform for deploying all types of applications and enabling a better user experience in the cloud," Google chairman Eric Schmidt said in a statement. He added: "We believe strongly in the power of the community to stretch this new technology to the limits of what's possible and ultimately emerge with an open standard that benefits everyone." Brendan Eich, chief technology officer at Mozilla corporation, the organisation behind the Firefox browser, said: "This announcement is a significant step forward for web applications." Some commentators have seen the move as a strike at Microsoft's dominance in the area of productivity applications. But Jupiter Research analyst Michael Gartenberg struck a more cautious note about the new technology. Writing in his blog, he said: "Folks are missing the point. "Yes, offline functionality is required but it isn't in itself a game changer. A word processor with less functionality than WordPad isn't going to upset anyone's business model, online or off." Google also used the conference to announce Google Mapplets, a tool giving developers the power to customise Google maps with mini-applications. News stories, weather, housing prices, and crime figures could be combined with maps to provide a more geographical representation of data. Speaking at the London-based conference, Ed Parsons, Google's geospatial technologist, said the firm wanted developers to help build a "geo-web". Google searches web's dark side 11 Google Earth turns spotlight on Darfur 11 Apr 07 | Africa TV to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6707935.stm | Coulson to be Tories' press chief GMT 15:58 to be Tories' press chief Andy Coulson joins the Tories at a crucial time Former News of the World editor Andy Coulson is to become the Conservative Party's Director of Communications. Mr Coulson quit his job with the tabloid after one of his reporters was jailed for plotting to intercept phone messages left for royal aides. The new job with the Tories will be a key one as David Cameron prepares to take on incoming PM Gordon Brown. Meanwhile it emerged that Mr Brown's long time aide, Michael Ellam, will be his official spokesman in Number 10. Mr Ellam, who worked for Ken Clarke before spending the last ten years working for Mr Brown at the Treasury, will handle the daily lobby briefings when Mr Brown succeeds Mr Blair. As well as editing the News of the World, Mr Coulson, 39, is also well known for his past stint as editor of The Sun's Bizarre pop gossip column. Mr Cameron said: "Andy is a hugely experienced journalist. I am delighted that he has agreed to join my team. "Andy will make a formidable contribution as a senior member of my team in building the most effective strategy and operation to win the next general election. I look forward very much to working with him". A Tory spokesman said Mr Coulson would give the Conservative press operation the extra "horsepower" it needed in the run up to the next general election. "A lot of Andy's job will involve being in day-to-day contact with editors and senior commentators and dealing with long-term strategy," he added. "We are not looking for an Alastair Campbell figure - his reliance on spin and aggressive media management has been discredited. Ellam to be No 10 spokesman "But we are looking for more horsepower and we are delighted that Andy will be playing a key role in David Cameron's top team." He said George Eustice would continue to be Mr Cameron's personal press secretary. He denied Mr Coulson's job would involve building bridges with the Tory-supporting newspapers and columnists who have launched scathing attacks on Mr Cameron's education policy in recent weeks. "This has nothing to do with the controversy over grammar schools," he said. Mr Coulson, 39, quit as News of the World editor in January on the day Clive Goodman, the paper's former royal editor, was jailed for four months for illegal phone tapping. A Tory spokesman said the party was satisfied Mr Coulson was not to blame for the scandal after he was cleared by a Press Complaints Commission investigation. The PCC found no evidence that Mr Coulson or anyone else at the paper was aware of Goodman's illegal activities. A close friend of former Daily Mirror editor Piers Morgan, Mr Coulson started out as a reporter on the Basildon Evening Echo. He rose rapidly through the News International ranks, editing The Sun newspaper's Bizarre gossip column and, in 2003, succeeding Rebekah Wade as editor of the News of the World. His reign saw a string of old-fashioned tabloid exclusives, lifting the lid on the private lives of David Beckham, David Blunkett, Sven Goran Eriksson. Commenting on his latest role, Mr Coulson said: "I am delighted to be joining David Cameron's team and I look forward to helping the Conservative Party to return to Government under his leadership." jailed over royal phone taps 26 Jan 07 | UK Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6706947.stm | South Asia | Nepal parties agree November poll GMT 16:29 parties agree November poll The Maoists want the king to go before the vote is held Elections to a constituent assembly to shape Nepal's future will take place in November, the ruling coalition says. The seven parties and former Maoists had earlier agreed to hold the vote in June, but the election commission said it needed more time to organise it. The assembly will decide the future of the monarchy and political system. The date of the vote has yet to be fixed. The elections are part of a peace deal signed last year with the Maoists whose 10-year rebellion claimed 13,000 lives. "We have agreed to hold the constituent assembly elections by the end of November and the eight party leaders have given the responsibility to the government to fix the date," Ramchandra Poudel, Nepal's minister for peace and reconstruction, told the AFP news agency. The weapons of both sides are under UN supervision He said the country's parliament, formed in January, would need to amend the interim constitution in the next two weeks. "We have also agreed to amend the interim constitution and formulate the necessary election laws by mid-June," he said. United Left Front party leader CP Mainali said that Prime Minister GP Koirala had proposed 26 November as election day, but that the date had not been approved by the leaders of the other parties. The governing coalition of seven political parties and the former Maoist rebels has said the fate of Nepal's beleaguered monarch, King Gyanendra, will be decided in the new assembly's first meeting. He was forced to relinquish most of his powers after huge protests in April last year ended his absolute rule. The assembly's members are then supposed to reorder Nepal's highly centralised political structure. The BBC's Mark Dummett in Kathmandu says they will consider a federal form of government, as well as ways to empower traditionally marginalised groups, such as low-caste Hindus, indigenous tribes and people living on the southern plains. The delay in holding the elections prompted complaints by the Maoists that King Gyanendra was manipulating the situation and trying to make a comeback. The former rebels insist he should be removed and a republic declared before polls are held. At least 13,000 people were killed in the fighting between security forces and Maoists, after the rebels began their insurgency in 1996. As part of a landmark peace deal agreed late last year, the former rebels and the army have placed their weapons under United Nations supervision. AT THE CROSSROADS Nepal brings Maoists in, but will soon debate keeping its monarchy Erasing the 'royal' in Nepal Prachanda - hero or villain? Who are the rebels? 2001: The royal massacre Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/6708311.stm | Morgan reveals assembly cabinet News in video and audio GMT 15:20 reveals assembly cabinet Rhodri Morgan has been drawing up the new team for the past week Welsh First Minister Rhodri Morgan has announced major changes to his new Labour cabinet team. Ex-social justice minister Edwina Hart takes health from Brian Gibbons and Carwyn Jones becomes the new education, culture and Welsh language minister. Dr Gibbons is now economy and transport minister and former education minister Jane Davidson takes charge of "sustainability and rural development". Opposition members warned the minority administration could soon be ousted. Under the assembly's new powers, Mr Morgan nominated his cabinet team and its members were appointed by the Queen. Cabinet changes became inevitable after the 3 May assembly election. Previous culture minister Alun Pugh lost his Clwyd West seat to the Conservatives and finance minister Sue Essex stood down in Cardiff North, a seat also captured by the Tories. Mr Morgan was re-appointed first minister last Friday after the coalition agreement between the three other parties appeared to have collapsed when it was rejected by senior Liberal Democrats. But the following day, Lib Dems voted to go ahead with the alliance at a special conference. Plaid Cymru's national council will meet in July to decide on a possible agreement with the Lib Dems and Conservatives. Labour is ruling as a minority administration after winning 26 of the 60 seats in the assembly election. Plaid has 15 AMs, the Tories 12, Lib Dems six, and there is one independent. If the opposition parties unite, they can oust Mr Morgan with a vote of no confidence. Mr Morgan is expected to announce his team of deputy ministers later. 'to be out of power soon' A leading Plaid AM says the opposition will oust Rhodri Morgan Deal still possible, says German Deal back on table, says Plaid Lib Dems vote to revive alliance Morgan makes promise to 'listen' Labour lined up for minority rule Grassroots Lib Dems revive deal Would-be first ministers fight on Plaid accuses Labour of arrogance Grassroots Plaid on Tory deal Labour deal document with Plaid Your views on the twists and turns A big step from tribal loyalties Q&A: Assembly 'rainbow coalition' Dispatches by BBC Wales' political editor from the front line reveals assembly cabinet Mother saw family diving deaths 'Stolen' Aborigine apology demand
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707475.stm | Asia-Pacific | Thai security chiefs fear unrest GMT 12:06 security chiefs fear unrest Support for Thai Rak Thai remains high in parts of Thailand Security officials have met in the Thai capital to discuss how to deal with possible unrest after a court ruling banning the former governing party. Supporters of Thai Rak Thai have threatened protests over the verdict, which also saw key party leaders barred from politics for five years. Army chiefs said extra security had been introduced on top of measures put in place ahead of Wednesday's ruling. The interim PM said he would impose a state of emergency if there was unrest. In a day of drama, a constitutional tribunal ruled on Wednesday that Thai Rak Thai was guilty of breaking electoral laws last year. It's an unexpected ruling and we are disappointed by the verdict - it's too harsh on Thai Rak Thai Earlier, it cleared the country's other main political party, the Democrats, of similar charges. Thai Rak Thai leaders have condemned the outcome as unfair but urged people to accept it. The party's founder, Thaksin Shinawatra - who was prime minister until he was ousted in a coup last September - urged "everyone to stay calm and don't make any moves". Bangkok was reported to be relatively calm on Thursday, although there was a small protest against last year's coup. Thousands of soldiers have been deployed in Bangkok Thousands of soldiers were put on alert earlier in the week in case of unrest, and army chief Sonthi Boonyaratglin said further checkpoints and security measures were now in place. A few "hardcore" allies of Mr Thaksin were being specifically monitored, he told the AFP news agency. "Security measures have been stepped up since last night and will gradually be increased," he said. "The measures will be in place for a long time". The panel of judges announced their verdict on Thai Rak Thai in a heavily-guarded courtroom in Bangkok on Wednesday, after hours of suspense. Thai courts are known to lack independence. It is sad that the great achievements of Thaksin are overlooked Send us your comments They found the party guilty of malpractice during the April 2006 electional campaign, and ruled that it should be disbanded and more than 100 party officials, including Mr Thaksin, be barred from office. Earlier, the same judges ruled that the Democrats - Thailand's oldest political party - had not maligned Thai Rak Thai in the same elections and would not have to disband. Following the malpractice allegations, the April 2006 elections were annulled. Prime Minister Thaksin was ousted by a military coup a few months later. The BBC's Andrew Harding in Bangkok says the decision to punish the entire party is sure to provoke anger in Thailand. Thai Rak Thai still retains widespread popularity, especially in rural areas, and supporters of the charismatic Mr Thaksin are likely to be upset that he has been barred from politics for so long. king warns over court ruling 25 Thai government hires PR company 30 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Draft of Thai constitution agreed 18 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Thai king remains centre stage 21 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific 02 Oct 06 | Country profiles security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/default.stm Front Page 4's PM programme GMT 17:11 UK Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. The man accused of murder 'Tense relations' over case US urges new goals on greenhouse gas US President George W Bush outlines new goals to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. Mortgage approvals hit year low The number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. Number of failing schools up 5% Blair issues Africa action call Tories deny grammars 'disarray' Increase in anti-terror targets Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' EMI strikes a deal with YouTube ALSO IN THE NEWS Soon you will be able to surf the net - even when offline Man Utd seal deal for Hargreaves Football: Terry defends McClaren Football: 'NI choose' Worthington AND AUDIO NEWS Theme park dedicated to Harry Potter Search for Britons continues Bush calls for climate action More Video / Audio News TV AND RADIO PROGRAMMES BBC One O'Clock News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Headlines from BBC News 24 Bolivia kicks off Fifa protest AROUND THE WORLD NOW Nigeria militants set conditions Thai security chiefs fear unrest US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Nepal parties agree November poll AROUND THE UK NOW Hitman jailed over gang shootings Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut Witness appeal after hit-and-run Morgan reveals assembly cabinet MORE FROM BBC NEWS Premiership wages 'to top £1bn' Coulson to be Tories' press chief Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS School power to search for knives Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt Rings musical halted by accident teachers have right to search pupils? Help us make the news, with your pictures, views and stories bombardments breeding resentment in Afghanistan A new series of Big Brother becomes Big Sister... Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6708511.stm | Tories deny grammars 'disarray' GMT 15:40 deny grammars 'disarray' Mr Grieve said new grammars should be built if needed The Tories have denied their education policy is in "disarray" after a second frontbencher defended grammar schools. Dominic Grieve told his local paper that if more grammars were needed in Buckinghamshire, they should be built. One shadow minister has already quit after leader David Cameron said it was "delusional" to expect new grammars. But the party denied Labour claims its policy was in "chaos" saying Mr Cameron had only been referring to areas that did not already have grammar schools. In an article for the Buckinghamshire Examiner, Mr Grieve - shadow attorney general and MP for Beaconsfield - said he was "pleased" the Conservatives were looking at ways of reforming the comprehensive school system nationally. But he added: "There is no question of our changing the selective education system in Buckinghamshire against the wishes of the local community. "We must also ensure that if further grammar or secondary schools are needed they can be supplied within the county." David has said absolutely nothing that is out of line with Conservative Party policy There are 164 grammar schools in England - choosing pupils by academic ability at the age of 11 - with 10 local education authorities considered to be fully selective. David Cameron has faced a grassroots rebellion over his decision to ditch the Tories' traditional support for grammar schools and academic selection. He said the party had not built a single new grammar school during its 18 years in power, that evidence suggested they did not enhance social mobility and called it "delusional" to think they would be able to build more in the future. Instead, he pledged support for existing grammar schools, but backed an expansion of Labour's academies programme instead. On Tuesday Europe spokesman Graham Brady resigned after being reprimanded and warned to stick to his brief after saying selective schools could boost overall educational standards. The policy was also denounced by members of the Conservatives' influential 1922 committee of backbench MPs as "ridiculous" and "absurd". Europe Minister Mr Brady has already quit over the row On Thursday, Labour's chief whip Jacqui Smith said: "Dominic Grieve's comments have thrown the Tories' schools policy into further chaos. "At the same time as David Cameron and George Osborne pledge that new grammar schools would not be built, their own shadow attorney general says that allowance should be made for new grammar schools to be built. "The Tories are in complete disarray." But the Conservatives say Mr Grieve's comments do not contradict party policy. Shadow Education Secretary David Willetts said: "David has said absolutely nothing that is out of line with Conservative Party policy. "I do understand that in parts of the country where they've got grammar schools, as demography changes, so they will come forward with how their grammar school system needs to change." Mr Willetts said Mr Grieve's argument had been made in the full knowledge of his discussions with Buckinghamshire MPs and councillors - and he did not rule out building more grammar schools in such areas if they were needed. "I am fully aware that in a place with rapid demographic change, like Buckinghamshire, you are inevitably going to face questions about whether you need to build more schools or not," he added. quits post over grammars row 29 Tory reprimanded over grammars 29 Q&A: What are grammar schools? 16 Cameron steps up grammars attack 22 Is Cameron winning schools fight? 22 Cameron attacks grammar 'fantasy' 21 No more grammars, Tories pledge 09 Jan 06 | Education issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/4995300.stm | Your news, your say, your pics May 2006, 16:29 GMT 17:29 news, your say, your pics Do you have a scoop that you want to tell the world about? Have you witnessed a news story in your area? Have you taken a picture or filmed some video on your phone or digital camera that tells the story? If so, we want to hear from you. Some of the most powerful journalism comes from people telling their own experiences in their own words. Your Manchester fire photos You can also get in touch via webcam, click on the link below to find out how. Click here to send us your video message If you feel passionately about a particular issue or that the the issues that are important to you, tell us about it. We can't promise to follow up every e-mail or use every photo - but we will pick out some of the best, develop your stories and publish them on the BBC news website. Send us your ideas using the form at the bottom of the page. Make sure you give us your location and contact details, such as your e-mail address or phone number. If you take a picture you should not endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. You can send pictures or video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or by mms by dialing +44 (0)7725 100100. Click here for terms and conditions on sending photos and video The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. you witness a news event? Got a good story idea? 'Why I love Eurovision glamour' 'My little and large babies' The day I met Tony Blair Who pays for the air ambulance? Fly-tipping in the countryside Online love is no fairy story Losing a home on costa del scam Bleak Christmas for hamper firm Green home wish 'not granted' The baby that defied the odds An uncertain future in the sun Virus hits 200 on luxury cruise 'I want to open people's minds' Friendliness and fear in Iraq 'End cancer prescription charges' The battle for the 'King of Bling' Refund for QM2 passengers Send the BBC News website your photos and video footage Your images of springtime snow London explosions: Your photos What do you think we should be talking about? in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707157.stm | Mortgage approvals hit year low GMT 12:16 approvals hit year low Recent interest rate rises in the UK could be beginning to bite The number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. Mortgage approvals totalled 107,000 in April, down from 111,000 in March and the third monthly decline in a row. In a further indication of weakening buyer demand mortgage lending rose by £8.9bn, much less than expected and the weakest rise since September Consumer debt rose by only £498m - half what was expected and the smallest increase since March 1997. "The Bank of England will be comforted by today's news which shows its monetary tightening is taking effect," said Thushani Gajasinghe, an economist at the Centre for Economic and Business Research. "With a further quarter-point rate increase possible in the third quarter, consumer lending may cool further." Historically low interest rates in the past few years have encouraged Britons to take on a mountain of debt - now reaching £1.5 trillion. However, interest rates have risen four times since the beginning of August last year which has begun to put pressure on some households' finances. Interest rates rose to 5.5% last month and it is widely thought a further rate increase is on the cards before August, and could even hit 6% by the end of the year. These rate rises are already impacting the consumer's attitude to credit card spending, and are expected to eventually take some of the steam out of the surging housing market and stabilise soaring property prices. But with double-digit price growth reported by Nationwide for May, analysts remain tentative on calling when a slowdown may occur. Global Insight economist Howard Archer said a general property shortage - particularly in London and the South East - would keep pricing power in favour of the vendor for a little while yet. But he did point out that significantly more houses have come onto the market in recent weeks as vendors looked to beat the planned introduction of compulsory Home Information Packs (Hips) in June. "This could well have some dampening impact on house prices in the near term at least, although it remains to be seen how housing supply will be affected by the delaying of the introduction of Hips to at least August," he added. home costs deter buyers Spain real estate sell-off eases House price growth 'strengthens' Cheapest homes top £100k Mortgage lending is still booming Will house prices crash? Using your house as a wallet Risks grow for first-time buyers Reading your local house market Dealing with estate agents Q&A: Moving your mortgage ASK THE EXPERT: ENDOWMENTS Take our Financial Healthcheck SEARCH UK HOUSE PRICES TYPE IN A FULL POSTCODE: OR SELECT A REGION: Key guides to buying, selling and moving house Fed up with the housing market? Find out more about the issues here economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6708995.stm | Americas | US urges new greenhouse gas goals GMT 16:51 urges new greenhouse gas goals Germany wants a 50% cut in emissions by 2050 US President George W Bush has urged countries to agree on long-term goals for greenhouse gas emissions. He said he would hold meetings bringing together the US and 14 other major emitters, including developing nations, to set targets by the end of 2008. Mr Bush was outlining US policy ahead of next week's G8 summit, in which the German hosts are expected to call for cuts in emissions. The US has been accused of resisting strong action to tackle climate change. It has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which sets out targets on lowering emissions until 2012. But Mr Bush on Thursday insisted that his administration took climate change seriously. The way to meet the challenge of energy and global climate change is through technology "The United States will work with other nations to establish a new framework on greenhouse gas emissions for when the Kyoto protocol expires," he said. To achieve this goal, he added, the US would hold a series of meetings bringing together "nations that produced most greenhouse gas emissions, including nations with rapidly growing economies like India and China". The BBC's Adam Brookes, in Washington, says Mr Bush's proposals differ radically from plans put forward by European countries ahead of the G8 summit. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called for a major deal, including slowing the rise in average temperatures to 2C this century, by way of a cut in global emissions by 50% below 1990 levels by 2050. The United States has rejected that approach. In his address in Washington, Mr Bush repeated that solutions to the problem of global warming would be found through the development of new technologies. "The United States is in the lead," he said. "The world is on the verge of great breakthroughs that will help us become better stewards of the environment." The US president also urged other nations to eliminate tariffs on clean energy technologies. The G8 summit will be held on 6-8 June in Heiligendamm in Germany. AND AUDIO NEWS What Bush's speech could mean for the climate Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/ BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6704563.stm | School power to search for knives GMT 05:36 power to search for knives The government hopes to stamp out the use of violent weapons Schools in England have been given the legal right to search pupils who are suspected of carrying knives. Head teachers will also be given guidance on how to use airport-style metal detectors to screen young people. The guidelines state that a pupil can be refused entry to a school if he or she refuses to be screened. Education Secretary Alan Johnson said knife-carrying in schools was rare, but it was illegal and a message it would not be tolerated must be sent out. I think parents will welcome the clear message that bringing a weapon into school is a criminal offence Education Secretary Alan Johnson 'Why my school uses search wands' He told the BBC: "What happens at the moment is that if a teacher suspects a child of carrying a knife they have to call the police and wait for the police to arrive before that child can be searched - unless the child agrees to be searched. "By that time any weapon they are carrying may have been passed on." Under the new guidelines trained staff, authorised by the head teacher, would be able to carry out searches. Crucially, a search should never take place where there is any risk to staff or pupils. They also explain how best to screen pupils, suggesting that randomly selected groups of pupils could be searched in order to send out a strong message of deterrence. But it also sets out limits for schools, in that suspicion has to be reasonable and not based on stereotypical images of certain groups of pupils. Two members of staff should be present for a search and both must be the same sex as the pupil. And students can only be required to remove outer clothing, such as coats or jackets. Mr Johnson said teachers themselves had asked for the powers but added that the main way to keep knives out of our schools is to continue educating young people about the dangers associated with them. "I think parents will welcome the clear message that bringing a weapon into school is a criminal offence and will not be tolerated." Parents should make sure their children do not leave for school with weapons Send us your comments But he added: "Let's not exaggerate how our schools look at the moment our schools have a very low proportion with any problem at all with pupils bringing in weapons. "The Youth Justice Board survey told us that, Ofsted told us that and head teachers and teachers tell her that. "Lets not exaggerate this into saying our schools are some kind of ghetto from central Manhattan or the Bronx." National Association of Head Teachers spokesman said it was the job of the police to search individuals for weapons. "They are trained and have the appropriate body armour. "Our advice to our members will be to call for police assistance should they suspect that a weapon is being carried." General secretary of the NASUWT union, Chris Keates, welcomed the new powers, but said searches must be conducted properly by appropriately trained staff. "However, all schools will still need to consider how they will be incorporated into their policies and procedures to ensure that they are prepared fully should the need arise. "There is a clear role for local authorities and the local police in supporting and advising schools in this process." The Teacher Support Network said in the past year its support line had handled 175 calls regarding behaviour management, 30% of which were concerned specifically with violence, abuse and threats. "Giving teachers facing these issues the power to stop and search pupils may make them feel safer at work though schools must exercise extreme caution," a spokesman added. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction from teachers' union to the new powers Schools advised on knife searches 22 Feb 07 | Education Blair to hold summit on gun crime 22 Feb 07 | Politics School knife crimes 'blunted' out 21 Nov 06 | Oxfordshire Schools told weapons scans are OK 16 Oct 06 | Education Heads 'want police knife checks' 25 Jul 06 | Education power to search for knives Number of failing schools up 5% Enforced schooling to 18 opposed
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/sci/tech/6706805.stm BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 06:58 GMT 07:58 UK meeting condemns Japan hunt Environment correspondent, BBC News website, Anchorage, Alaska Sea Shepherd protesters disrupted Japan's Antarctic hunt this year The International Whaling Commission's annual meeting has passed a resolution condemning Japan's scientific hunting programme in the Antarctic. Japan catches nearly 1,000 whales there each year in the name of research. After an acrimonious debate, a large number of countries refused to vote, saying the resolution was illegitimate. There was, however, consensus support for a motion censuring environmental groups which try to hinder Japan's Antarctic programme. Both Greenpeace and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society have tried to block the programme in recent years, culminating in a damaging collision between Japanese and Sea Shepherd vessels in the recent Antarctic season for which each party blames the other. It was just about the only sign of common ground in a day marked by the entrenched positions and political posturing which has bedevilled this organisation for years. 'Stain on the commission' Any International Whaling Commission (IWC) member is entitled to hunt whales for scientific research, but anti-whaling countries view the size and scope of Japan's programmes in the Antarctic and north Pacific as going far beyond what was envisaged when the IWC's constitution, the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, was drawn up in 1946. Resolutions calling for a halt have materialised regularly. Japan is not obliged to comply with the IWC vote "Every scientific catch is a stain on the record of this commission," said Monaco's whaling commissioner Frederic Briand. "The best thing Japan could do is to reduce the size of its scientific whaling programmes around the world." The IWC's scientific committee recently reviewed Japan's Antarctic programme, and New Zealand's conservation minister Chris Carter was not too impressed with their conclusions. Japanese hunters "killed 7,000 whales over 18 years, and couldn't even decide how many whales there are," he fumed. This was in marked contrast to the St Kitts commissioner Cedric Liburd, who said: "This research provided significant data enabling us to understand the structure and abundance of whale populations. Every scientific catch is a stain on the record of this commission "I find [this resolution] extremely disturbing, vexatious and in some ways irrelevant," he said. "It is frivolous, devoid of action and meaningless." Virtually all of the pro-whaling bloc abstained from the vote, leading to a majority of 40 to 2. It makes no material difference, as Japan is not obliged to comply. Nevertheless, it is viewed by environmental groups as an important weapon in the battle for hearts and minds. Environmental organisations Greenpeace and Sea Shepherd came under fire themselves in a resolution co-ordinated by Japan and New Zealand. It was the only concrete sign so far of the common ground which both sides said they were seeking before the meeting convened. People on both sides of the debate talk about their views The resolution, which says that member governments "do not condone, and in fact condemn, any actions that are a risk to human life and property in relation to the activities of vessels at sea," passed by consensus. "We maintain that our protests are peaceful and non-violent," commented Shane Rattenbury of Greenpeace International. "Greenpeace has 35 years of history of being non-violent; but I'm sure the Japanese government will attempt to wave it in our face and say 'you shouldn't be undertaking these protests'." Sea Shepherd's record is rather different, having been implicated in attacks on whaling vessels spanning more than two decades. It is notable that while Greenpeace is allowed into the meeting here, Sea Shepherd is not. Parts of the resolution can also be interpreted as a rebuke to Japan, particularly an injunction to "have regard to protecting... the fragile Antarctic environment." The meeting looked like running late into its penultimate evening, with several major issues unresolved. AND AUDIO NEWS Actress Miranda Richardson supports a total ban A proposal for a South Atlantic whale sanctuary is defeated Deadlock at Greenland whale plan Anti-whaling lobby rebuffs Japan Conciliation talk at whaling meet Cultural claim to whale hunting Cruelty and the kitchen Under the skin of whaling science Temples of the whale Did Greens help kill the whale? Guide to the Great Whales Moving whaling debate forward The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt Great apes 'facing climate peril' US urges new greenhouse gas goals MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6707315.stm BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Hezbollah condemns Hariri court news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 15:52 GMT 16:52 UK condemns Hariri court Hariri's killing sparked protests that pressured Syria to leave Lebanon Lebanese opposition party Hezbollah has condemned a UN Security Council vote to set up a tribunal to try suspects in the killing of Rafik Hariri. The ex-PM and 22 other people died in a huge car bombing in Beirut in 2005. A UN inquiry has suggested that Syrian and Lebanese intelligence forces played a role - which Syria denies. The pro-Syrian Hezbollah group, which has previously blocked a parliamentary vote on the plan, said the UN decision violated Lebanese sovereignty. "The resolution, as much as it constitutes a violation of the Lebanese state and an attack on its internal affairs, it is contrary to legal rules and the charters and principles of the United Nations and the objectives for which it was established to achieve," the statement said. The resolution was "illegal and illegitimate at the national and international level", the group added. Lebanon's pro-Syrian president, Emile Lahoud, has said he fears the tribunal will cause fresh division in the country. Syria has also condemned the decision. Hezbollah's opposition to the tribunal has so far meant that Lebanese PM Fouad Siniora has been unable to get a vote backing the plan through parliament. The UN resolution gives the Lebanese parliament one more opportunity to back the plan. The ratification of the international tribunal does not, and should not, be considered as a victory for one party over another Lebanese party Lebanon split by decision If the parliament does not ratify the tribunal by 10 June, the Security Council may independently authorise a tribunal, as it did in Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. The issue of the tribunal has been at the centre of a political crisis in Lebanon which has seen the opposition withdraw its ministers from the cabinet, and attempt to bring down the government through street protests. The Syrian ambassador at the UN, Bashar Jaafari, condemned the UN vote. "Definitely this is something that goes against the interests of the Lebanese people and Lebanon as a whole," he told reporters after the vote. The Syrian government has in the past threatened not to co-operate with an international tribunal. NEXT STEPS FOR TRIBUNAL Lebanon must ratify tribunal by 10 June, or UN could push ahead regardless May take about a year to establish court Tribunal to be held in undetermined neutral location Syria has threatened not to co-operate with the tribunal The resolution was adopted by 10 votes to zero, with five abstentions from Russia, China, South Africa, Indonesia and Qatar. Syria has always strongly denied any involvement in Mr Hariri's death, but in 2005 it withdrew its troops from Lebanon after a presence of 29 years, following massive domestic and international pressure after the assassination of Mr Hariri. Four pro-Syrian Lebanese generals have been under arrest for more than a year, accused of involvement. The Syrian government position is that the tribunal will be a violation of Lebanese sovereignty and that it will further undermine stability there. As far as its alleged involvement in the assassination is concerned, Syria says that if one of its citizens was to be formally accused of involvement, that person could be tried only by Syrian courts. Saad Hariri, the son of the assassinated politician, said the tribunal was a turning point for the country and "an opportunity for all Lebanese to unite". Speaking live on Lebanese television, he said the time had come for justice. Some of the abstaining ambassadors at the Security Council objected to the reference in the resolution to Chapter Seven of the UN Charter, used in cases of threats to international peace and security. The issue of the tribunal has caused deep divisions in Lebanon However, the US and its allies argued that only Chapter Seven resolutions were legally enforceable. There is a hope in Lebanon that the resolution will end a long, sad history of unpunished political assassinations, says the BBC's Kim Ghattas in Beirut. Reporting from the Damascus, Magdi Abdel Hadi says the new resolution is likely to increase the tension between Syria and the Western-backed Lebanese government of Mr Siniora. It is also likely to increase polarisation inside Lebanon itself. People in Lebanon are on edge after a series of bomb attacks last week and an ongoing bloody standoff in northern Lebanon between the army and militants from the Fatah al-Islam group. A Lebanese army spokesman said a soldier was killed on Thursday by sniper fire from Fatah al-Islam militants inside the Nahr al-Bared Palestinian refugee camp. At least 80 people have been killed in the fighting, including 35 soldiers, 20 civilians and at least 25 militants. AND AUDIO NEWS Rafik Hariri's son gives his reaction to the tribunal Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Press divided on Hariri tribunal UN approves Hariri murder court Hariri probe 'progress on motive' The US, Iran and Saudi Arabia battle to gain influence in Lebanon. UN tries to bridge Lebanon divide Protests take their toll The Lebanese crisis explained Mid-East crisis: Facts and figures Profile: Sheikh Hassan Nasrallah Lebanese viewpoints on strike Syria Gate (official site) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/4995300.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Your news, your say, your pics news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 18 May 2006, 16:29 GMT 17:29 UK news, your say, your pics Do you have a scoop that you want to tell the world about? Have you witnessed a news story in your area? Have you taken a picture or filmed some video on your phone or digital camera that tells the story? If so, we want to hear from you. Some of the most powerful journalism comes from people telling their own experiences in their own words. Your Manchester fire photos You can also get in touch via webcam, click on the link below to find out how. Click here to send us your video message If you feel passionately about a particular issue or that the BBC is not covering the issues that are important to you, tell us about it. We can't promise to follow up every e-mail or use every photo - but we will pick out some of the best, develop your stories and publish them on the BBC news website. Send us your ideas using the form at the bottom of the page. Make sure you give us your location and contact details, such as your e-mail address or phone number. If you take a picture you should not endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. You can send pictures or video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or by mms by dialing +44 (0)7725 100100. Click here for terms and conditions on sending photos and video The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. you witness a news event? Got a good story idea? 'Why I love Eurovision glamour' 'My little and large babies' The day I met Tony Blair Who pays for the air ambulance? Fly-tipping in the countryside Online love is no fairy story Losing a home on costa del scam Bleak Christmas for hamper firm Green home wish 'not granted' The baby that defied the odds An uncertain future in the sun Virus hits 200 on luxury cruise 'I want to open people's minds' Friendliness and fear in Iraq 'End cancer prescription charges' The battle for the 'King of Bling' Refund for QM2 passengers Send the BBC News website your photos and video footage Your images of springtime snow London explosions: Your photos What do you think we should be talking about? UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Increase in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/cricket/england/6703495.stm BBC SPORT | Cricket | England | Hoggard forced to delay comeback 31 May 2007, 12:16 GMT 13:16 UK forced to delay comeback Hoggard was England top wicket-taker in the winter Ashes series England seam bowler Matthew Hoggard seems certain to miss the third Test against West Indies after being forced to postpone his comeback from injury. Hoggard has been out of action since suffering a groin problem during the opening game of the series at Lord's He was hoping to play for club side Baildon on Saturday and turn out for Yorkshire against Durham in the Friends Provident Trophy the following day. But he felt discomfort during a net session and is unlikely to be risked. "It's extremely disappointing for Matthew, but it's one of those type of injuries that if you rush back before you're ready it can turn into a serious problem," said chairman of selectors David Graveney. "Caution is a by-word for us and hopefully the extra time will help him recover and be back playing cricket sooner rather than later." It means Ryan Sidebottom is certain to keep his place in the England squad for next week's game at Old Trafford, having taken eight wickets in the second Test win at Headingley. Hoggard will now have two possible matches to prove his fitness for the final Test of the series at the Riverside - Yorkshire's Championship game against Kent, which starts next Wednesday, and the FP Trophy fixture against Northants on 13 June. Unlike England colleagues Andrew Flintoff and Simon Jones, he has been fairly lucky with injuries for most of his international career. But he missed the final match of the winter Ashes series because of a side strain and had to leave the field at Lord's after bowling only 10.1 overs. England v West Indies video archive TEST MATCH SPECIAL BLOG Test Match Special - 50 not out Taking candy from a baby Remembering the day cold stopped play Sidebottom gives selectors a headache Flintoff suffers injury setback 30 Hoggard set to miss rest of Test 20 West Indies in England 2007 08 Jan 07 | Cricket 14 Your say on 606 England and Wales Cricket Board West Indies Cricket Board The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6708705.stm BBC NEWS | UK | 21/7 accused 'had explosive list' news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 14:42 GMT 15:42 UK accused 'had explosive list' Adel Yahya is one of six men who deny terrorism charges One of the 21 July terror suspects kept a list of explosives on a CD Rom seized by the authorities, a court has heard. Adel Yahya, 24, of Tottenham, north London, also stored a book titles relating to chemical and biological warfare, Woolwich Crown Court was told. Mr Yahya said he signed a property list confirming he owned the CD Rom only because he feared it would be stolen. Mr Yahya and five other men all deny conspiracy to murder and to cause explosions likely to endanger life. The CD Rom was seized when Mr Yahya was arrested in Ethiopia in November 2005 following a request by UK authorities. He told the court that the item, which contained a large Excel spreadsheet with 97 chapters written in English, belonged to his uncle in Ethiopia. One chapter listed details of explosives; another chemicals and a third book titles, including Aircraft Safety, Terrorist Target Selection, Biological Warfare, Chemical Warfare Agents and Jihad: The Origin of the Holy War in Islam. Another chapter, about chemicals and fertiliser, included 29 sources of hydrogen peroxide in concentrations of 27.5% to 50%. Max Hill, prosecuting, said: "Your role in this conspiracy included using your knowledge to set about obtaining the highest concentration you and your co-defendants could find." Mr Yahya denied knowing about the list and said: "What you are saying is absolute rubbish." Mr Yahya admitted he asked about the highest percentage concentration of hydrogen peroxide sold at a cosmetics shop in Finsbury Park, north London, twice in May and June 2005. He said he did it because that was what co-defendant Yassin Omar wanted him to ask. Mr Yahya said the chemical was needed for bleaching wood. But Mr Hill accused him of wanting a higher percentage to make explosives. "The truth is Mr Yahya, you were the man who was in charge then, weren't you?" said Mr Hill. Mr Yahya went on holiday to Ethiopia with his wife on 11 June 2005. He is one of six men accused of taking part in an extremist Muslim plot to carry out a series of suicide bombings on the London's public transport network in 2005. In the dock are Ramzi Mohammed, 25, of North Kensington, west London; Hussain Osman, 28, of no fixed address; Muktar Said Ibrahim, 29, from Stoke Newington, north London; Mr Omar, 26, from New Southgate, north London; Mr Yahya; and Manfo Kwaku Asiedu, 34, of no fixed address. JULY 'BOMB PLOT' TRIAL Accused's daily prayer 'apology' Man heard Abu Hamza sermons Accused admits 21/7 idea 'stupid' 21/7 accused 'is absolute liar' PREVIOUS NEWS FROM TRIAL Accused in Muslim bias claim Accused 'a desperate man' 'Allah instructed' 21/7 suspect Defendant's call to Gordon Brown Suspect relives burka flight What the prosecution say the defendants did on 21 July 2005 Weeks 7 and 8 Weeks 12 - 14 Weeks 15 - 17 Weeks 18 - 19 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Increase in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/internationals/6702983.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Internationals | Terry determined to save McClaren 31 May 2007, 11:30 GMT 12:30 UK determined to save McClaren Terry (left) will lead out England against Brazil and Estonia England v Brazil (Fri 1 June) Live on BBC ONE from 1930 BST & Radio Five Live Estonia v England (Wed 6 June) Live on Sky Sports and BBC Radio Five Live, highlights on BBC ONE England skipper John Terry has admitted coach Steve McClaren could lose his job if they lose in Estonia. England face Brazil in a friendly on Friday before a must-win Euro 2008 qualifier in Estonia five days later. "Will there be a question mark over him if England lose? Possibly. But we are not thinking like that," Terry said. "We need to go there and get a win. It is as simple as that. We are fully behind the manager and we are going to do our best to keep him in his job." Interview: England captain John Terry Interview: England striker Michael Owen England head to Estonia for Wednesday's game in fourth place in Group E and knowing only a win will do after some disappointing results. Your thoughts on Terry's comments Terry added: "We need to go there and perform. The Brazil game is a chance for us to get our sharpness back and make sure we are ready for the game on Wednesday." Terry is pleased to have David Beckham - the player he replaced as skipper after the World Cup last summer - back in the squad. He said: "It is great to have him back. We all know his quality and he has brought that into training and we look forward to seeing him training. "It is not strange for me. We are all important players in the squad and it is just great to have him back. "I had a few chats with Steve and the form he has been in is exceptional since he came back from injury. It couldn't go unnoticed. The manager has brought him in and rightly so." I will stand or fall by this decision Steve McClaren on Beckham's recall McClaren has praised David Beckham for earning a recall to the national squad. Real Madrid midfielder Beckham, 32, was named in a McClaren squad for the first time - his first inclusion since the 2006 World Cup. McClaren said: "He showed great hunger and desire to get back. He didn't moan, just got his head down and worked hard. "I have not made this decision for anyone, it is about form. He is the fittest I have seen for a long time." Beckham last played for England in the World Cup quarter-final defeat against Portugal last July, after which he resigned the captaincy and has not been selected in any of McClaren's nine previous squads. He was also dropped by Real Madrid in January after agreeing to join Major League Soccer side LA Galaxy when his contract with the Spanish side runs out at the end of the season. But coach Fabio Capello eventually recalled Beckham and he has produced some stunning displays to lead Real to the top of La Liga, with two games left. McClaren added: "You've got to respect the work Fabio Capello is doing at Real Madrid. "He has had the same problems as me. He had no hesitation about bringing David back when he was on form and that has changed the fortunes of Real Madrid. "I would be very foolish to ignore that. I have played against them a couple of times and scored both times Michael Owen on facing Brazil "After one match, Capello said David ran 15 kilometres and the next highest figure was 12km. In another he ran 80 yards in the last minute to create a winning goal. "I will stand or fall by this decision but anyone who has watched David closely over the last few weeks and months must understand why he is in the squad." Also returning to the England squad is Michael Owen, who has been ruled out since the World Cup after injury. The Newcastle striker is delighted to be back playing for his country and taking on the might of Brazil at Wembley. He said: "I feel fine. It feels great to be back in the fold. I played in the England B game last week but obviously this is the real stuff now. "The way Brazil play, the stars they produce, their kit - everything about them means you couldn't wish for a more exciting game to start off with at Wembley. "I have played against them a couple of times and scored both times." Owen scored in a 1-1 friendly draw with Brazil in one of the last England's last games at the old Wembley stadium in 2000 and in their World Cup quarter-final defeat in 2002. He also scored against Brazil for England Under-15s on his first ever appearance at Wembley. Shorey and Brown set for England 29 Beckham recalled to England squad 26 Why are Brazil so good? 31 Lineker on Beckham and England 31 25 Pick your England XI 26 28 End of the road for England 29 Football on the BBC Your say - 606 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites FROM OTHER SPORT SITES Terry Hopes To Ease Pressure On Boss - 1 hr ago Terry: We're fighting for McClaren's job - 4 hrs ago Terry's pressure point - 4 hrs ago Beckham could play for P - 5 hrs ago Royals aim to head off Hammers hopes - 6 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6707011.stm BBC NEWS | Scotland | Edinburgh and East | Witness appeal after hit-and-run news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 13:31 GMT 14:31 UK appeal after hit-and-run Four-year-old Olivia Donachie was killed instantly in the crash. Police have urged witnesses to a hit-and-run in Edinburgh which killed four-year-old Olivia Donachie to contact them. Officers have been hunting for a man who fled the scene of the accident in the Colinton area of the city at about 1530 BST on Wednesday. Olivia's mother Rachel, 33, is stable but critically ill in hospital. A man who was detained by members of the public at the scene of the accident has been released by police. Eyewitnesses said a green Cherokee Jeep had been involved in two collisions with other vehicles shortly before the fatal accident. The earlier crashes occurred in the area within a 15-minute period. When I got close up to the vehicle I could see that it was a most horrendous accident Officers said the first crash happened in Lanark Road at the Gillespie Crossroads and the second one in Bridge Road in nearby Colinton Village. No-one was injured in the Gillespie Crossroads incident but two women suffered minor injuries as a result of the collision in Bridge Road. An incident room has been established at Gayfield Square Police Station. Chief Inspector Paul Bullen, of Lothian and Borders Police, appealed for information, especially from bus passengers. He said: "We know that when the fatal crash happened there were two Lothian Transport buses, numbers 10 and 16 nearby and we would like to hear from anyone on them who may have seen what happened or have any information about the incident. "When the collision happened at Gillespie Crossroads there was a number 45 bus nearby and those passengers should come forward. "We would also like to hear from anyone who may have seen the fatal crash yesterday afternoon or saw a green Cherokee jeep driving erratically and has any information about what happened." The woman and her daughter were struck near a wall only yards from their home in Westgarth Avenue. One of those first to arrive after the accident was resident Gordon Reynolds, who described the scene as shocking. He said: "When I got close up to the vehicle I could see that it was a most horrendous accident. "There was what I took to be the body of a very young child pinned, massively hemmed in at the front of the vehicle." Scenes of crime, CID and forensic officers have been examining the vehicle and the crash site. She was a wonderful, innocent, four-year-old girl who loved everything that she did at nursery Bonaly Primary School head teacher Gordon Robertson, the head teacher of Bonaly Primary School, where Olivia attended nursery, said her death had left everyone at the school devastated. "She was a wonderful, innocent, four-year-old girl who loved everything that she did at nursery," he said. "She was so full of joy and so popular with her classmates and the staff. "Our thoughts are with the whole Donachie family and we are praying for Olivia's mum Rachel, who is still in hospital." Rev George Whyte, the minister of Colinton, said the community was in shock over what has happened. "This is a quiet family community where people walk around and know each other," he said. "Everyone feels devastated about what has happened." Anyone with information about the incident is asked to contact Lothian and Borders Police on AND AUDIO NEWS Forensic officers search for evidence at the scene Child killed in city hit-and-run 30 and East Lothian and Borders Police The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Witness appeal after hit-and-run OAP billed for home's demolition Injured quad bike boy abandoned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/internationals/6708553.stm BBC SPORT | Football | Internationals | Worthington set to be NI manager 31 May 2007, 13:58 GMT 14:58 UK set to be NI manager Nigel Worthington played 66 times for Northern Ireland Nigel Worthington will be unveiled as the new Northern Ireland manager on Friday, BBC Sport understands. The 66-times capped former defender is the Irish Football Association's choice to succeed Lawrie Sanchez who resigned to take charge of Fulham last month. The 45-year-old has previously managed Blackpool and Norwich City and has just completed a spell in temporary charge of Championship side Leicester City. It is unclear if the appointment goes beyond the Euro 2008 qualifying series. Worthington's first game in charge will be against Liechtenstein at Windsor Park in August. Northern Ireland are in with a chance of qualifying for a major championship for the first time in over 20 years. Is Worthington the right choice for Northern Ireland? They head Group F on 13 points following the superb victory against Sweden in March. The IFA Executive is expected to be asked to ratify the appointment on Friday morning ahead of a media conference and a backroom team will then be announced. Worthington began his career as a left-back with Ballymena United in the Irish League in 1979 and went on to play at full-time professional level for Notts County, Sheffield Wednesday, Leeds United, Stoke City and Blackpool. He spent ten years at Sheffield Wednesday and was a member of the Owls side that won the League Cup and promotion to the top flight in 1990-91. Two years later, Worthington and his teammates were losing finalists in both the League Cup and FA Cup. The highlights of his international career included being part of the 1986 World Cup squad in Mexico and a spell as captain under manager Bryan Hamilton. He managed Blackpool from 1997 to 1999 and was at the helm at Norwich City from 2000 to 2006, guiding the Canaries to promotion to the Premiership in 2003-2004. The Carrow Road club was relegated the following season and Worthington's reign ended after a poor run of results in October, 2006. He was appointed caretaker boss of Leicester earlier this year but failed to secure the permanent appointment. New NI manager set to be revealed 30 Former players out of NI running 23 No rush to appoint new NI manager 15 Wilson plays down N Ireland link 14 Search starts for new NI boss 11 Boyce upset at Sanchez departure 11 Sanchez quits NI for Fulham post 11 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6708141.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Increase in anti-terror targets news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 13:12 GMT 14:12 UK in anti-terror targets BBC News home affairs Counter-terror police are stopping and searching more people Counter-terror police have recorded a 37% increase in "suspicious reconnaissance" of potential targets in the first four months of 2007. Metropolitan Police commanders said the "undiminished" threat level justified the continued use of random stop-and-search powers. But they accepted the reasons for almost 23,000 stops under anti-terror laws in London needed more explaining. Campaigners say anti-terrorism stop and searches "criminalise" communities. However, the Home Office may expand the powers yet further. ANTI-TERRORISM STOPS AND SEARCHES 22,672 from Sept 05 to Oct 06 16% of stops Asian In February London police came under fire from their watchdog, the Metropolitan Police Authority, in a major report into the effect of counter-terrorism policing on the capital. The watchdog found that the force's use of special anti-terror stop and search powers were doing "untold harm" to communities in the capital, in particularly Muslims. Under Section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000, police officers may randomly stop someone without reasonable suspicion, providing the area has been designated a likely target for an attack. The power is currently in force across the whole of London. But coming under fire for the use of the power, senior officers told the watchdog that the threat to the UK from terrorism remained "undiminished" - and that police had to use as broad a range of tools as possible. Commander John McDowell, the Met's deputy national co-ordinator for counter-terrorism in the UK, said he agreed with analysis that the threat had worsened. "There have been public pronouncements that the threat has grown in volume and I would concur with that," he said. "Since 2005 we have seen an increase in activity and an increase in the gradient of the graph." Commander McDowell said that the first four months of 2007 had seen the police record a 37% increase in what it classed as suspicious reconnaissance - incidents that may be the first stage in planning an attack on the public. He cautioned that this increase in reporting may be partly attributable to improved intelligence gathering as the security services expand counter-terrorism operations. Assistant Commissioner Andy Hayman of the Met Police said the figure showed why officers were right to continue to use the Section 44 powers. WHERE SEC 44 STOPS HAPPEN 23% Outside Govt buildings, iconic sites, tourist attractions While police could never be certain that a stop directly reduced the threat of a specific potential attack, he said it was important in a wider counter-terrorism context. "What we do know is the mode of behaviour around a terrorist," he said. "If they feel that they could be stopped and searched under these powers, they could be prevented [from attacking]. What I don't know is how many are truly prevented." Assistant Commissioner Hayman said that he accepted some of the criticisms of how the powers had been deployed - in particularly the lack of public information on who was being stopped. He said the force would introduce a new rule book for officers involved in Section 44 stops - and the Met would also build a publicity campaign to explain to key communities why police believed the power was necessary. Some officers were "unsure" of how the powers should be used, according to the Met's report into their use. The defence of the powers came days after the Home Office said it was considering introducing a wider "stop and question" law. The new power would give police an automatic right to stop and question anyone in the UK about suspected terrorism, building on the Section 44 power currently in force. The proposal immediately drew fire from civil liberties groups and Muslim campaigners who predicted it would criminalise entire communities. features and more from the BBC website for London More stop and quiz terror powers 27 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Increase in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/football/teams/m/man_utd/6707995.stm BBC SPORT | Football | My Club | Man Utd | Man Utd seal deal for Hargreaves 31 May 2007, 11:16 GMT 12:16 UK Utd seal deal for Hargreaves Manchester United have targeted Hargreaves for a year Manchester United have confirmed that England midfielder Owen Hargreaves will join them from Bayern Munich on 1 July. United have not yet disclosed the fee for the 26-year-old but it is believed to be in the region of £17m. Hargreaves has agreed personal terms and passed a medical so now he only has to officially put pen to paper on what is expected to be a five-year deal. "Owen will formally sign his contract when he returns from a holiday at the end of June," read a United statement. Where would Hargreaves fit into your United XI? Hargreaves, who is taking a family break in his native Canada, has been a long-time target for United. The Premiership champions failed with bids to sign him last summer and in January. He enjoyed an illustrious 10 seasons at Bayern, winning six league titles and the 2001 Champions League. Now we're ready to attack on four fronts But his final season was plagued by injury and ended with Bayern finishing fourth in the Bundesliga, thereby missing out on Champions League qualification. Hargreaves had a four-month lay-off at the start of the campaign because of a broken leg and went on to play in only nine league games. He will also miss England's matches against Brazil and Estonia in June because of a knee problem. The announcement of Hargreaves' arrival at Old Trafford comes less than 24 hours after it was revealed that United had agreed "in principle" to sign Brazilian midfielder Anderson, 19, from FC Porto and Portuguese winger Nani, 20, from Sporting Lisbon. The deal for the duo could amount to a total of £30m. Summer transfers in photos 31 Man Utd swoop for Anderson & Nani 31 Utd Giggs ends international career 30 Hargreaves close to Man Utd move 29 Utd Hargreaves hints at Man Utd deal 21 Utd Ferguson plots next move 09 Utd Scholes earns Hargreaves praise 01 Utd Hargreaves set to discuss future 13 Apr 07 | Europe Hargreaves bullish on qualifying 26 Mar 07 | Internationals Hargreaves back in Bayern defeat 03 Feb 07 | Europe Bayern hold off Hargreaves sale 07 Jan 07 | Europe 09 Jan 07 | Football Football on the BBC Man Utd fans' views on 606 BBC Where I Live - Manchester The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites FROM OTHER SPORT SITES United seal Hargreaves deal - 1 hr ago Sir Alex builds for the future - 1 hr ago Man Utd confirm Hargreaves signing - 3 hrs ago United go big on Nani and Anderson - 3 hrs ago Sepp Blatter re-elected as Fifa president for a third term - 4 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6707935.stm BBC NEWS | Politics | Coulson to be Tories' press chief news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 14:58 GMT 15:58 UK to be Tories' press chief Andy Coulson joins the Tories at a crucial time Former News of the World editor Andy Coulson is to become the Conservative Party's Director of Communications. Mr Coulson quit his job with the tabloid after one of his reporters was jailed for plotting to intercept phone messages left for royal aides. The new job with the Tories will be a key one as David Cameron prepares to take on incoming PM Gordon Brown. Meanwhile it emerged that Mr Brown's long time aide, Michael Ellam, will be his official spokesman in Number 10. Mr Ellam, who worked for Ken Clarke before spending the last ten years working for Mr Brown at the Treasury, will handle the daily lobby briefings when Mr Brown succeeds Mr Blair. As well as editing the News of the World, Mr Coulson, 39, is also well known for his past stint as editor of The Sun's Bizarre pop gossip column. Mr Cameron said: "Andy is a hugely experienced journalist. I am delighted that he has agreed to join my team. "Andy will make a formidable contribution as a senior member of my team in building the most effective strategy and operation to win the next general election. I look forward very much to working with him". A Tory spokesman said Mr Coulson would give the Conservative press operation the extra "horsepower" it needed in the run up to the next general election. "A lot of Andy's job will involve being in day-to-day contact with editors and senior commentators and dealing with long-term strategy," he added. "We are not looking for an Alastair Campbell figure - his reliance on spin and aggressive media management has been discredited. Ellam to be No 10 spokesman "But we are looking for more horsepower and we are delighted that Andy will be playing a key role in David Cameron's top team." He said George Eustice would continue to be Mr Cameron's personal press secretary. He denied Mr Coulson's job would involve building bridges with the Tory-supporting newspapers and columnists who have launched scathing attacks on Mr Cameron's education policy in recent weeks. "This has nothing to do with the controversy over grammar schools," he said. Mr Coulson, 39, quit as News of the World editor in January on the day Clive Goodman, the paper's former royal editor, was jailed for four months for illegal phone tapping. A Tory spokesman said the party was satisfied Mr Coulson was not to blame for the scandal after he was cleared by a Press Complaints Commission investigation. The PCC found no evidence that Mr Coulson or anyone else at the paper was aware of Goodman's illegal activities. A close friend of former Daily Mirror editor Piers Morgan, Mr Coulson started out as a reporter on the Basildon Evening Echo. He rose rapidly through the News International ranks, editing The Sun newspaper's Bizarre gossip column and, in 2003, succeeding Rebekah Wade as editor of the News of the World. His reign saw a string of old-fashioned tabloid exclusives, lifting the lid on the private lives of David Beckham, David Blunkett, Sven Goran Eriksson. Commenting on his latest role, Mr Coulson said: "I am delighted to be joining David Cameron's team and I look forward to helping the Conservative Party to return to Government under his leadership." jailed over royal phone taps 26 Jan 07 | UK Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/south_asia/6706947.stm BBC NEWS | World | South Asia | Nepal parties agree November poll news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 15:29 GMT 16:29 UK parties agree November poll The Maoists want the king to go before the vote is held Elections to a constituent assembly to shape Nepal's future will take place in November, the ruling coalition says. The seven parties and former Maoists had earlier agreed to hold the vote in June, but the election commission said it needed more time to organise it. The assembly will decide the future of the monarchy and political system. The date of the vote has yet to be fixed. The elections are part of a peace deal signed last year with the Maoists whose 10-year rebellion claimed 13,000 lives. "We have agreed to hold the constituent assembly elections by the end of November and the eight party leaders have given the responsibility to the government to fix the date," Ramchandra Poudel, Nepal's minister for peace and reconstruction, told the AFP news agency. The weapons of both sides are under UN supervision He said the country's parliament, formed in January, would need to amend the interim constitution in the next two weeks. "We have also agreed to amend the interim constitution and formulate the necessary election laws by mid-June," he said. United Left Front party leader CP Mainali said that Prime Minister GP Koirala had proposed 26 November as election day, but that the date had not been approved by the leaders of the other parties. The governing coalition of seven political parties and the former Maoist rebels has said the fate of Nepal's beleaguered monarch, King Gyanendra, will be decided in the new assembly's first meeting. He was forced to relinquish most of his powers after huge protests in April last year ended his absolute rule. The assembly's members are then supposed to reorder Nepal's highly centralised political structure. The BBC's Mark Dummett in Kathmandu says they will consider a federal form of government, as well as ways to empower traditionally marginalised groups, such as low-caste Hindus, indigenous tribes and people living on the southern plains. The delay in holding the elections prompted complaints by the Maoists that King Gyanendra was manipulating the situation and trying to make a comeback. The former rebels insist he should be removed and a republic declared before polls are held. At least 13,000 people were killed in the fighting between security forces and Maoists, after the rebels began their insurgency in 1996. As part of a landmark peace deal agreed late last year, the former rebels and the army have placed their weapons under United Nations supervision. AT THE CROSSROADS Nepal brings Maoists in, but will soon debate keeping its monarchy Erasing the 'royal' in Nepal Prachanda - hero or villain? Who are the rebels? 2001: The royal massacre Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/6708311.stm BBC NEWS | Wales | Morgan reveals assembly cabinet News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 16:14 GMT 17:14 UK reveals assembly cabinet Rhodri Morgan has been drawing up the new team for the past week Welsh First Minister Rhodri Morgan has made big changes to his Labour cabinet. Ex-social justice minister Edwina Hart takes health from Brian Gibbons and Carwyn Jones becomes the new education, culture and Welsh language minister. Dr Gibbons is now economy and transport minister and former education minister Jane Davidson takes charge of "sustainability and rural development". Mr Morgan said the changes were "a major refresh" but Plaid Cymru said it was "the same old tired faces". Meanwhile, some opposition Assembly Members have warned that the minority administration could soon be ousted. Among the changes, former economic and transport minister Andrew Davies takes over Ms Hart's social justice portfolio and will also be responsible for improving the standard of public services. No north Wales cabinet members were announced but Alyn and Deeside AM Carl Sargeant becomes chief whip and deputy business minister and will attend all cabinet meetings. Health and social services: Education, culture and Welsh language: Sustainability and rural development: Social justice and public service delivery: Mr Morgan said his new team represented "a major refresh of almost every portfolio, with roles occupied by ministers completely new to those roles". "They will bring a new impetus and energy to driving forward our policy programme in co-operation with others across the assembly where we are of like mind," he added. "I am confident that this approach will receive a positive response from parties who have expressed a need for greater co-operation because it is in the interests of Wales." Plaid Cymru deputy assembly leader Rhodri Glyn Thomas was unimpressed. "Rhodri Morgan's latest cabinet has no change of personnel and therefore there has to be a change of policy and a new sense of urgency if this government is going to make a real difference to lives across Wales," he said. "We have here the same old tired faces. It is unlikely this cabinet will contain renewed ambition for Wales to go with the new powers of the assembly." Rhodri Morgan's M4 corridor Cabinet shows no new faces and risks having few new ideas Lib Dem group leader Mike German Conservative assembly group leader Nick Bourne said: "Today's announcement is proof that Rhodri Morgan is more interested in the day-to-day survival of his government than the delivery of dynamic, radical policies that will benefit every community in every part of the country. "That is hardly encouraging for the credibility of the national assembly, the stability of government, or in the interests of the people of Wales." And Liberal Democrat assembly group leader Mike German suggested that "perhaps Rhodri has been conscious that the cabinet's work is likely to be time limited". "Rhodri Morgan's M4 corridor Cabinet shows no new faces and risks having few new ideas," he added. Cabinet changes became inevitable after the 3 May assembly election. Previous culture minister Alun Pugh lost his Clwyd West seat to the Conservatives and finance minister Sue Essex stood down in Cardiff North, a seat also captured by the Tories. Mr Morgan is expected to announce his deputy ministers later. Labour is ruling as a minority administration after winning 26 of the 60 seats in the assembly election. Plaid has 15 AMs, the Tories 12, Lib Dems six, and there is one independent. Mr Morgan was re-appointed first minister last Friday after a coalition agreement between the three other parties appeared to collapse when it was rejected by senior Liberal Democrats. But the following day, Lib Dems voted to go ahead with the alliance at a special conference. The Welsh Conservative's management board has also backed the plans and Plaid Cymru's national council will meet in July to makes its decision. 'to be out of power soon' A leading Plaid AM says the opposition will oust Rhodri Morgan Deal still possible, says German Deal back on table, says Plaid Lib Dems vote to revive alliance Morgan makes promise to 'listen' Labour lined up for minority rule Grassroots Lib Dems revive deal Would-be first ministers fight on Plaid accuses Labour of arrogance Grassroots Plaid on Tory deal Labour deal document with Plaid Your views on the twists and turns A big step from tribal loyalties Q&A: Assembly 'rainbow coalition' Dispatches by BBC Wales' political editor from the front line The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Morgan reveals assembly cabinet Mother saw family diving deaths 'Stolen' Aborigine apology demand MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6707475.stm BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Thai security chiefs fear unrest news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 11:06 GMT 12:06 UK security chiefs fear unrest Support for Thai Rak Thai remains high in parts of Thailand Security officials have met in the Thai capital to discuss how to deal with possible unrest after a court ruling banning the former governing party. Supporters of Thai Rak Thai have threatened protests over the verdict, which also saw key party leaders barred from politics for five years. Army chiefs said extra security had been introduced on top of measures put in place ahead of Wednesday's ruling. The interim PM said he would impose a state of emergency if there was unrest. In a day of drama, a constitutional tribunal ruled on Wednesday that Thai Rak Thai was guilty of breaking electoral laws last year. It's an unexpected ruling and we are disappointed by the verdict - it's too harsh on Thai Rak Thai Earlier, it cleared the country's other main political party, the Democrats, of similar charges. Thai Rak Thai leaders have condemned the outcome as unfair but urged people to accept it. The party's founder, Thaksin Shinawatra - who was prime minister until he was ousted in a coup last September - urged "everyone to stay calm and don't make any moves". Bangkok was reported to be relatively calm on Thursday, although there was a small protest against last year's coup. Thousands of soldiers have been deployed in Bangkok Thousands of soldiers were put on alert earlier in the week in case of unrest, and army chief Sonthi Boonyaratglin said further checkpoints and security measures were now in place. A few "hardcore" allies of Mr Thaksin were being specifically monitored, he told the AFP news agency. "Security measures have been stepped up since last night and will gradually be increased," he said. "The measures will be in place for a long time". The panel of judges announced their verdict on Thai Rak Thai in a heavily-guarded courtroom in Bangkok on Wednesday, after hours of suspense. Thai courts are known to lack independence. It is sad that the great achievements of Thaksin are overlooked Send us your comments They found the party guilty of malpractice during the April 2006 electional campaign, and ruled that it should be disbanded and more than 100 party officials, including Mr Thaksin, be barred from office. Earlier, the same judges ruled that the Democrats - Thailand's oldest political party - had not maligned Thai Rak Thai in the same elections and would not have to disband. Following the malpractice allegations, the April 2006 elections were annulled. Prime Minister Thaksin was ousted by a military coup a few months later. The BBC's Andrew Harding in Bangkok says the decision to punish the entire party is sure to provoke anger in Thailand. Thai Rak Thai still retains widespread popularity, especially in rural areas, and supporters of the charismatic Mr Thaksin are likely to be upset that he has been barred from politics for so long. king warns over court ruling 25 Thai government hires PR company 30 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Draft of Thai constitution agreed 18 Apr 07 | Asia-Pacific Thai king remains centre stage 21 Sep 06 | Asia-Pacific 02 Oct 06 | Country profiles The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Thai security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/default.stm BBC NEWS | News Front Page 4's PM programme Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 16:46 GMT 17:46 UK UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Andrei Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. The man accused of murder 'Tense relations' over case US urges new goals on greenhouse gas US President George W Bush outlines new goals to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. Mortgage approvals hit year low The number of new mortgage approvals in the UK fell to a 12-month low in April, Bank of England figures show. 21/7 accused 'had explosive list' Blair issues Africa action call Tories deny grammars 'disarray' Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Increase in anti-terror targets EMI strikes a deal with YouTube ALSO IN THE NEWS Soon you will be able to surf the net - even when offline Man Utd seal deal for Hargreaves Cricket: Hoggard injury snag Football: Terry defends McClaren What do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Theme park dedicated to Harry Potter UK 'behind Litvinenko death' Search for Britons continues Bush calls for climate action More Video / Audio News TV AND RADIO PROGRAMMES BBC One O'Clock News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Headlines from BBC News 24 Spy death suspect 'blames UK' AROUND THE WORLD NOW Nigeria militants set conditions Thai security chiefs fear unrest US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Nepal parties agree November poll AROUND THE UK NOW Hitman jailed over gang shootings Worthington set to be NI manager Witness appeal after hit-and-run Morgan reveals assembly cabinet MORE FROM BBC NEWS Premiership wages 'to top £1bn' Coulson to be Tories' press chief Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS School power to search for knives Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt Rings musical halted by accident Online and offline worlds merge Should teachers have right to search pupils? Help us make the news, with your pictures, views and stories MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty bombardments breeding resentment in Afghanistan A new series of Big Brother becomes Big Sister... Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/entertainment/6707791.stm BBC NEWS | Entertainment | Rings musical halted by accident news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 12:49 GMT 13:49 UK musical halted by accident The show has a cast of 50 actors and acrobats Performances of the London stage version of the Lord of the Rings have been suspended after a cast member was injured during the show. One of the actors is believed to have caught his leg in the moving stage during an early scene. The individual was not one of the lead actors, but the show was halted and the audience offered refunds. Performances are due to resume on Saturday. The £8m musical is currently previewing and officially opens on 19 June. The set involves a large hydraulic stage which can revolve, and be raised or lowered in sections. Audience member Tori Lowe said: "The hobbits were on stage and had a group of dancers dressed as rangers with them. "There was suddenly a lot of screaming, but at first we thought it might be part of the show. "But a stagehand came runnning on, and when the music stopped we could hear someone shouting 'My leg! My leg!'." In a statement, the producers said they were "looking at modifying the staging" so previews could resume. The three-hour production, at the Theatre Royal Drury Lane, has a cast of 50 actors and acrobats. It has undergone a major rewrite since closing just six months after its premiere in Toronto last year. West End meets Middle-earth 09 Fans flock for 'new' Tolkien book 17 Apr 07 | Entertainment Rings musical unveils London cast 15 Jan 07 | Entertainment Hobbit audition offers shortcut to fame 18 Sep 06 | Entertainment The Lord of the Rings The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Rings musical halted by accident First Magpie host Bastable dies EMI strikes a deal with YouTube MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6705251.stm BBC NEWS | Business | Premiership wages 'to top £1bn' news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 23:01 GMT 00:01 UK wages 'to top £1bn' Hands up if you get well paid.... Chelsea has the highest wage bill Premier League wages are set to break the £1bn barrier for the first time in the competition's history, a report from Deloitte has said. Salaries and bonuses will increase next season as a £1.7bn television deal for top-flight games comes into effect, the report says. Deloitte's annual review of football finances showed Premier League wages rose 9% to £854m in 2005/06. Chelsea's outlay totalled £114m while four other clubs paid more than £50m. The new TV revenue - including domestic and international rights - equates to about £300m extra per season over the lifetime of the current three-year deal. Whilst wages will rise, clubs do have the opportunity to increase the importance of performance related pay structures Sport Business Group, Deloitte However, Deloitte said the wave of new owners at clubs, including Aston Villa and Liverpool, was likely to result in more restraint in spending, with servicing debt and investing in stadia being other key priorities. "A lot of these new owners have had sporting success but also considerable financial success", said director of Deloitte's Sports Business group, Alan Switzer. "A decent chunk of the money will still flow through to the players, but we don't think it will be the same proportion that flowed through previously." JUST FANCY THAT! - STATS FROM THE 2005/06 SEASON Four Championship teams paid more in wages than they made in revenue Premier League and Football League clubs paid about £50m in agents fees France's Ligue 1 made a profit for the first time since 2000 English professional football paid about £650m in taxes Chelsea's pre-tax losses fell from £140m to £80m While spending on transfers is set to exceed £300m this summer, Deloitte's Paul Rawnsley said it was not viable for clubs to simply throw money at players. "Whilst wages will rise, clubs do have the opportunity to increase the importance of performance related pay structures," he said. "This will both insulate the business in future when on-pitch results are not so good, and also help motivate and reward players and management for winning." The report confirmed that the Premiership was once again the top-earning league in the world. Its 20 clubs generated £1.4bn in turnover on 2005/06, a figure expected to rise to £1.8bn in 2007/8. And the report pointed out that the increased revenue - alongside cost controls - should almost double combined operating profits to £260m next season. Manchester United was once again top of the English revenue league, making £167.7m. The club was followed by Chelsea on £152.8m, Arsenal on £133m and Liverpool on £121.6m. PREMIER LEAGUE'S TOP WAGE BILLS 2005/06 Manchester Utd - £85m Newcastle Utd - £52m Arsenal's revenue is expected to have soared in 2006/07, with its income from gate receipts and corporate hospitality boosted by its first season in the 60,000-capacity Emirates Stadium. Only nine Premiership clubs, however, actually made a pre-tax profit - down from 14 in 2004/05. Click here to see the wages of the Big Five leagues Wages paid to players in England again outstripped their European counterparts. The total wage bill in Italy, the second biggest in Europe, was 35% below the English level at 806m euros (£548m) while clubs in the much-admired Spanish La Liga shelled out 739m euros (£502m) to their stars. Should TV money be used to subsidise ticket prices? Although Italy was also the second highest earning league in Europe, falling matchday revenue was likely to see it slip behind Germany and Spain in the 2006/07 report. The "big five" European leagues generated 53% of the total £8.6bn European football market. Revenue generated by clubs in the Championship - the second tier in England - grew 4% to £312m, reaffirming it as Europe's sixth biggest league. Top league revenues 05/06 Last month Deloitte said promotion from the Championship to the Premiership this season would be worth about £60m for the successful clubs - Sunderland, Birmingham and Derby County. And the report highlighted the financial chasm between the two divisions. The gap between revenue at the average Premier League club and Championship side hit a record £56m in 2005/06 and was tipped to grow to £70m next season. Click here to return AND AUDIO NEWS How fortunes have changed in world football Premiership entry 'is worth £60m' 02 Man Utd drops down wealth league 08 Feb 07 | Business Euro cash fear for English football clubs 11 Jan 07 | Business First fall in Premiership wages 01 Jun 06 | Business Deloitte Sports Business Group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites US economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/south_of_scotland/6719505.stm BBC NEWS | Scotland | South of Scotland | Gamekeeper punished for poisoning news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:24 GMT 17:24 UK E-mail this to a friend Gamekeeper punished for poisoning Aitken arrived at Selkirk Sheriff Court in a ski mask A Borders gamekeeper who admitted using live pigeons as bait and lacing pheasant carcasses with poison has been given 220 hours of community service. George Aitken, 56, from Lauder, admitted a total of eight charges. He turned up for sentence at Selkirk Sheriff Court wearing a black full-face ski-mask and a combat jacket. Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) investigating officer Bob Elliott described the case as the worst it had seen in at least 20 years. He believed Aitken was using the toxic substance to try to kill off birds of prey in the area. The gamekeeper was caught in a joint operation last August when banned pesticides and traps were found at Blythe Farm near Lauder. The carbofuran - which is this nasty poison - being left out in our countryside is a national disgrace The operation involved the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SSPCA), the RSPB and Lothian and Borders Police. They found carcasses of pheasants laced with highly toxic poisons had been laid out only yards from the Southern Upland Way - a route popular with walkers. Home-made illegal cage traps were also found with live pigeons inside to lure birds of prey to their death. Mr Elliot told Selkirk Sheriff Court it was a very serious case. "This is the worst we have seen in at least 20 years," he said. "It is the mixture of the traps, the pigeons that were contained in them and the poison. "The carbofuran - which is this nasty poison - being left out in our countryside is a national disgrace." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS More on the court case Gamekeeper admits poison charges 30 Apr 07 | South of Scotland Lothian and Borders Police The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH OF SCOTLAND STORIES Penalty for poison case gamekeeper Schools introduce text alert plan Catholic primary plans progress MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6719507.stm BBC NEWS | World | Europe | news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:13 GMT 20:13 UK E-mail this to a friend threat to aim weapons at Europe if the US sets up a missile defence shield there was "unhelpful and unwelcome", Nato has said. The US says it wants missile defence in eastern Europe to counter threats from states like Iran and North Korea. On Sunday, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Iran was not a threat to the US, hinting that Russia was the target. French President Nicolas Sarkozy has said he will have "frank" talks with Mr Putin this week about the threat. Washington wants to deploy interceptor rockets in Poland and a radar base in the Czech Republic to counter what it describes as a potential threat from "rogue states" such as Iran and North Korea. It insists the shield is not aimed at Russia. [Putin] called for a frank dialogue. From my side, it will be frank French President Nicolas Sarkozy New discord set to last Q&A: US missile defence Send us your comments "As far as I am aware, the only country speculating about targeting Europe with missiles is the Russian Federation," Nato spokesman James Appathurai said. "These kind of comments are unhelpful and unwelcome." See map of US missile defence bases The new French president will hold his first talks with Mr Putin at this week's G8 summit in the German resort of Heiligendamm. "I will listen attentively to him. He called for a frank dialogue. From my side, it will be frank," Mr Sarkozy said. British Prime Minister Tony Blair said that the US plans were not aimed at Russia. He said Britain wanted a strong relationship with Russia, but that Russia had to act constructively. "We want to have a constructive dialogue with Russia," Mr Blair's official spokesman said. "We want to be able to talk about issues such as Kosovo, Iran and other global issues in a constructive way. Equally Europe as a whole does have concerns and will not be shy in expressing those concerns." US President George W Bush is also due to meet Mr Putin at the three-day summit, which starts on Wednesday. The BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes in Moscow says that if Mr Putin's words are anything to go by, the summit is likely to be stormy. 'Joke of the year' Mr Putin issued his warning in an interview with foreign reporters ahead of the G8 meeting. "If the American nuclear potential grows in European territory, we will have to have new targets in Europe," Mr Putin said. Russia has tested a new ballistic missile to restore 'strategic balance' He said neither Iran nor North Korea had the weapons that the US was seeking to shoot down. "We are being told the anti-missile defence system is targeted against something that does not exist. Doesn't it seem funny to you?" he asked. Top Iranian security official Ali Larijani described the planned deployment as the "joke of the year", adding that Iran's missiles were not capable of reaching Europe. Mr Putin said Washington had "altered the strategic balance" by unilaterally pulling out of the anti-ballistic missile (ABM) treaty in 2002. He hoped US officials would change their minds about the missile plan, and said that if an arms race resulted it would not be Russia's fault. Last week, Moscow announced it had tested a ballistic missile to maintain "strategic balance" in the world. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Czech fears about a planned US radar base Q&A: US missile defence 04 Jun 07 | Europe New era of discord for Russia and West 04 Jun 07 | Europe Gorbachev criticises US 'empire' 03 Jun 07 | Europe Russia blames US in missile row 01 Jun 07 | Europe Russia tests long-range missile 29 May 07 | Europe Russia upgrades nuclear missiles 05 Dec 06 | Europe The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Seven Turks killed in rebel raid Hague trial for Liberian ex-leader MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6718235.stm BBC NEWS | Politics | Blair in moderate Muslims appeal news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 15:40 GMT 16:40 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Mr Blair hosted a breakfast meeting with Islamic leaders Tony Blair says he wants the "voice of moderation" among Muslims to be heard, as £1m funding was announced to boost Islamic studies at UK universities. Ministers hope the money, announced as a report criticised teaching quality, will help train more imams in the UK. At a conference on Islam, Mr Blair also called for closer links between Islamic schools and mainstream state schools. Critics said the London conference had excluded Muslim groups opposed to government policies. In a speech at the conference, hosted by Cambridge University, Mr Blair said British politicians must listen harder to the "calm voice of moderation and reason" of the majority of the country's Muslims. "Those willing to come on television and articulate extreme and violent views make so much more impact than those who use the still, small voice of reason and moderation," he said. The voices of extremism are no more representative of Islam than the use in times gone by of torture to force conversion to Christianity represented the teachings of Christ He said the conference had been organised to "let the authentic voices of Islam, in their various schools and manifestations, speak for themselves". "Some of the most distinguished scholars and religious leaders the world over are gathered here. And I ask people in the country and wider to listen to them. They are the authentic voices of Islam," he said. "The voices of extremism are no more representative of Islam than the use in times gone by of torture to force conversion to Christianity represented the teachings of Christ." The extra £1m was to go to British universities which teach Islamic studies courses - which were important to challenge extremism. These are the issues which are radicalising young people and he did not talk about that Full text: Blair speech It came as a government-commissioned report by leading scholar Dr Ataullah Siddiqui said teaching of Islam in English universities was based on "out-of-date and irrelevant issues". Higher education minister Bill Rammell announced that Islamic Studies would be designated a strategically important subject, which the government hopes will help prevent extremism and improve community relations. Mr Blair also mentioned Iraq and Afghanistan, saying the invasions had been opposed by many Christians and should not be seen as being driven by religion. Muslim News editor Ahmed Versi was among those at the conference, he told BBC News that overall, the language used by Mr Blair was "quite welcoming". But he said he did not properly address the most important issue to Muslims - what he called the "double standards" of foreign policy in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. It will be for the relevant academic community to debate any future changes to the teaching of Islamic studies "These are the issues which are radicalising young people and he did not talk about that," he said. Among those attending the two-day conference are clerics including the Grand Mufti of Egypt, Shaykh Ali Gomaa, and the Grand Mufti of Bosnia, Mustafa Ceric. Labour peer Lord Ahmed of Rotherham, a critic of the government's foreign policy, told the BBC the conference was "fronted" by Cambridge University, but had been organised by the government which had "deliberately chosen to exclude those Muslims who disagree with government policy." He accused Mr Blair of using "divide and rule" tactics and said the university was being used "to see off a last speech" before Mr Blair steps down on 27 June. If this benefits the communities of the UK it can only be a good thing Send us your comments Catriona Laing, of Cambridge University's Interfaith Programme, denied there had been any political interference and said the conference had been planned for a long time. Meanwhile university vice chancellors said Islamic Studies had been carefully developed and it was important all academic disciplines followed the same procedures to "ensure critical intellectual rigour and openness". Professor Drummond Bone, president of Universities UK, said: "It will be for the relevant academic community to debate any future changes to the teaching of Islamic studies." Last week the University and College Union voted to urge lecturers not to meet government demands to inform on pupils suspected of extremism. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Muslims on how they feel about Tony Blair's policies Full text: Blair speech on Islam 04 Jun 07 | Politics Teaching of Islam is 'out-dated' 04 Jun 07 | Education Campus extremism request rejected 30 May 07 | Education Extremism advice 'could backfire' 17 Nov 06 | Education Conform to our society, says PM 08 Dec 06 | Politics University and Colleges Union The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/tennis/6720297.stm BBC SPORT | Tennis | Superb Nadal passes Hewitt test 4 June 2007, 16:08 GMT 17:08 UK E-mail this to a friend Superb Nadal passes Hewitt test Nadal needed two hours and 21 minutes to beat Lleyton Hewitt Defending champion Rafael Nadal hit peak form to see off Australian Lleyton Hewitt 6-3 6-1 7-6 (7-5) and reach the French Open quarter-finals. Hewitt was expected to pose Nadal's first test of the tournament but he was outclassed in the first two sets. The Australian fought back brilliantly to take the third set into a tiebreak but despite leading it 4-2, he was unable to stop the Nadal juggernaut. The second seed will face fellow Spaniard Carlos Moya in the last eight. Highlights: Nadal brushes off Hewitt "It's perfect to be in the quarter-finals and it's perfect play. Ten times better than the last few days," said the 21-year-old. "The match was tough all the way. I'm very happy with my game. I played the best match of the tournament for sure. "I like his game a lot, and I like his attitude on court. He is a fighter, so I like that." Despite the defeat, Hewitt can still boast a 4-3 winning record against Nadal but his three defeats have all come on clay. Monday's match exemplified exactly why. Nadal's topspin groundstrokes kept Hewitt pinned behind the baseline from where he was unable to conjure any sort of attack. Even the Spaniard's serve, not his most potent weapon, proved too strong for Hewitt, who prides himself on his return. In the first set, Nadal won 71% of points when he got his first serve in and that figure rose to 78% in the second. It got even better in the third, at 82%, but by then Hewitt had improved his own serve. If Federer was watching I think he'd be a little bit concerned at the level Nadal showed BBC Sport's John Lloyd The Australian's challenge looked to be over when he finally dropped serve at 5-5, but the former world number one fought back once more as the crowd willed him to extend the match into a fourth set. However, at 5-4 in the tiebreak, Hewitt put a relatively easy forehand into the net and Nadal seized his chance to clinch victory in two hours and 21 minutes. Hewitt said he now expected Nadal to go and win his third straight title at Roland Garros. "The conditions here suit him well, probably more so than the court in Hamburg where Roger Federer beat him," said the Australian. "He served really well and he hit his forehand up the line extremely well. He just hits the ball so differently to anyone out there. "The spin he gets, it's quite amazing. (Fernando) Gonzalez has got a big forehand, but Nadal's is different. "He has the best forehand to set up points on this surface." Nadal v Hewitt as it happened 04 Jun 07 | Tennis Djokovic powers into last eight 04 Jun 07 | Tennis Serena and Henin set for rematch 04 Jun 07 | Tennis 04 Jun 07 | Tennis Tuesday's order of play 30 May 07 | Tennis Tennis on the BBC 22 May 07 | Tennis Contact the BBC TV tennis team 24 May 07 | Tennis Women's French Open draw 25 May 07 | Tennis Men's French Open draw 25 May 07 | Tennis French Open on the BBC Latest tennis talk on 606 The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/4995300.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Your news, your say, your pics news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 18 May 2006, 16:29 GMT 17:29 UK E-mail this to a friend Your news, your say, your pics Do you have a scoop that you want to tell the world about? Have you witnessed a news story in your area? Have you taken a picture or filmed some video on your phone or digital camera that tells the story? If so, we want to hear from you. Some of the most powerful journalism comes from people telling their own experiences in their own words. Your Manchester fire photos You can also get in touch via webcam, click on the link below to find out how. Click here to send us your video message If you feel passionately about a particular issue or that the BBC is not covering the issues that are important to you, tell us about it. We can't promise to follow up every e-mail or use every photo - but we will pick out some of the best, develop your stories and publish them on the BBC news website. Send us your ideas using the form at the bottom of the page. Make sure you give us your location and contact details, such as your e-mail address or phone number. If you take a picture you should not endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. You can send pictures or video to yourpics@bbc.co.uk or by mms by dialing +44 (0)7725 100100. Click here for terms and conditions on sending photos and video The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend Did you witness a news event? Got a good story idea? 'Why I love Eurovision glamour' 'My little and large babies' The day I met Tony Blair Who pays for the air ambulance? Fly-tipping in the countryside Online love is no fairy story Losing a home on costa del scam Bleak Christmas for hamper firm Green home wish 'not granted' The baby that defied the odds An uncertain future in the sun Virus hits 200 on luxury cruise 'I want to open people's minds' Friendliness and fear in Iraq 'End cancer prescription charges' The battle for the 'King of Bling' Refund for QM2 passengers Send the BBC News website your photos and video footage Your images of springtime snow London explosions: Your photos What do you think we should be talking about? Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6720647.stm BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Rodgers gets city's top civic job news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:42 GMT 21:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Rodgers gets city's top civic job Jim Rodgers said he would do what was best for Belfast Ulster Unionist Jim Rodgers has been elected as Belfast's new lord mayor. Mr Rodgers, a councillor for the Victoria Ward, was previously the city's civic head in 2001. He succeeds the SDLP's Pat McCarthy in the post. He pledged to do what was best for the city and its citizens - regardless of religion or race - during his term of office. "I want to assure every member of this council that I will be an impartial lord mayor," he said. "I will do what's best for the council and also for this great city of ours, regardless of the person's religion, colour, class and creed. "It is vitally important we carry on that work that's been done for many years." There had been speculation that a Sinn Fein councillor would become the party's second lord mayor of the city. Although it is the largest party it does not have a majority and needed the support of other parties to get their candidate, Tierna Cunningham, elected. However, the SDLP gave their support to Mr Rodgers at Monday's council meeting. Sinn Fein's Paul Maskey expressed anger at the SDLP for not backing his party's candidate. "The decision lies at the behest of the SDLP," he said. "We have met with the SDLP over many weeks to discuss the mayorality of this council and yet the Ulster Unionists come up 30 minutes before this council meeting and cut a deal." However, the SDLP's Alban Maginnis said republicans had voted against two of their candidates in the past, including outgoing Lord Mayor Pat McCarthy. "What Sinn Fein are complaining about is not the fact that the SDLP rotates but rather the sequence that the SDLP rotates and they want to dictate that and we are saying that we will make our own minds up about the sequence." He added that they would seriously consider supporting a Sinn Fein candidate next year. The SDLP's Bernie Kelly was elected deputy mayor after receiving support from the UUP and some DUP backing. Sinn Fein's Alex Maskey, now an assembly member, was the party's first lord mayor in the history of the city in 2002. The first lord mayor of Belfast was Daniel Dixon, who was elected in 1892. Meanwhile, in Ballymena the DUP's Maurice Mills was elected mayor with the SDLP's PJ McEvoy the new deputy mayor. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Civil service 'fortnight on sick' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6719561.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 14:58 GMT 15:58 UK E-mail this to a friend Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine The McCanns' search is taking them across Europe An appeal for help in the search for Madeleine McCann is to feature on the BBC's Crimewatch programme. A McCann family spokesman said Gerry and Kate were redoubling efforts to find their four-year-old daughter, abducted in Portugal a month ago. He said it was important the message was heard across Britain. Last week, the couple appealed for help on Spanish television and are preparing to travel to Germany and the Netherlands to continue the search. On Sunday, the couple released a statement saying it could take "just one phone call" for Madeleine to be found and returned to them. The family spokesman said: "Crimewatch is very important and it has a large audience. "At one stage we felt the message was out there so utterly in Britain but we now feel it is more relevant." In the meantime, the McCanns, both 38, from Rothley, Leicestershire, are hoping to meet Portuguese police for an update on the investigation. The last meeting, described as "constructive and amicable", was 11 days ago and another due to be held last week fell through. The spokesman said: "They are very happy with the level of co-operation they are receiving from the Portuguese authorities via the British police but they are always keen to have further meetings - to be updated as often as possible." On Tuesday, Gerry, originally from Glasgow, and Kate will fly to Berlin in the private jet of an anonymous donor. Their twins, Sean and Amelie, are expected to stay in Portugal with an aunt and uncle, the spokesman said. The next day the couple are hoping to meet political figures and hold a press conference before travelling on to the Netherlands, where the family had earlier lived for a year. There is also expected to be a trip to Morocco, a country which has been linked to the case. A Norwegian woman said she thought she saw Madeleine with a couple at a petrol station in Marrakech on 9 May, but Interpol and British police are thought to have ruled it out. Madeleine disappeared on 3 May from the family's holiday apartment in Praia da Luz, a resort town in the Algarve, while her parents were at a nearby restaurant. Crimewatch is on BBC1 on Tuesday, 5 June, at 2100 BST E-mail this to a friend Madeleine police get test results Pope meets parents of Madeleine Giant Madeleine poster unveiled Suspect details 'too vague' 'No-one feels more guilt' What next for the Portuguese police inquiry? Media scrum at house search Q&A: Suspect and Portuguese law How effective are rewards? Q&A: Portuguese police system The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/suffolk/6719387.stm BBC NEWS | England | Suffolk | Soldier admits five crash deaths news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 15:21 GMT 16:21 UK E-mail this to a friend Soldier admits five crash deaths Jennifer Stoddart, left, and her sister Claire were killed An army corporal has admitted causing a road crash which killed five people, including three teenage girls. Ben Morphey, 22, from High Street, Yoxford, Suffolk, admitted five charges of causing death by careless driving while unfit due to drink last July. Simon Bonner, 40, and Kim Abbott, aged 41; Claire and Jennifer Stoddart, aged 18 and 15, and Carla Took, 18, died on the A12 at Blythburgh. Morphey is due to be sentenced at Ipswich Crown Court next month. Morphey admitted responsibility for the crash at a hearing on Friday but the judge in Ipswich banned reporting of his guilty pleas until all the families of the victims had been told of his admissions. Ben Morphey will be sentenced at Ipswich Crown Court next month Morphey was originally charged with causing death by dangerous driving and his trial was due to begin on Monday. The three girls, who lived in Lowestoft, Suffolk, were returning from a Red Hot Chilli Peppers' concert in Ipswich when the crash happened. The support band, Dirty Pretty Things, headlined a concert last year in aid of the Make Roads Safe campaign. Mr Bonner and Ms Abbott lived in the Yoxford area. Carl Barat, lead singer of Dirty Pretty Things, said at the time: "The deaths in Suffolk of Claire, Jennifer and Carla were so sad, such a waste of young lives, and this is happening to families every day." The Make Roads Safe campaign calls on world leaders to take action on road traffic injuries. E-mail this to a friend Sport, entertainment, features and more from the BBC website for Suffolk Concert remembers crash teenagers 13 Sep 06 | Suffolk Thanksgiving service for sisters 18 Jul 06 | Suffolk School tributes for crash girls 03 Jul 06 | Suffolk Her Majesty's Court Service The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Soldier admits five crash deaths Child sex abuse conductor jailed Two robbers on-run from open jail MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/africa/6717991.stm BBC NEWS | World | Africa | S Africa police clash with nurses news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 14:27 GMT 15:27 UK E-mail this to a friend S Africa police clash with nurses Some unions have called for an indefinite strike South African police have fired rubber bullets and stun grenades at striking nurses in the port city of Durban. The union activists were reportedly trying to prevent nurses from working. The police say the grenades are not harmful but unions say it was a "brutal" attack. Twelve people have been arrested. After the clashes, the unions boycotted scheduled talks with the government. The unions want a 12% pay rise - double what the government has offered. Earlier, the government warned striking nurses they would be fired unless they return to work by Monday. "No firearms were used in dispersing the crowd. We only used sound grenades which only have power to make sound and disperse people," police Superintendent Vincent Mdunge told AFP news agency. A public service strike that began on Friday has crippled many hospitals and army medical staff have been brought in to provide care. The military has been helping out in South African hospitals Some unions are on indefinite strike, but others only called for a one-day strike. Health department chief Thamsanqa Mseleku accused some health workers of "intimidating" their colleagues who wanted to go to work. "We believe that we cannot sit and watch while that kind of anarchy takes place," he said, according to the Sapa news agency. He said the nurses were providing an "essential" service. Sapa reports that on Sunday just 100 beds were being used in Durban's King Edward VIII hospital - the city's largest, which has 922 beds. "The workers have actually locked up the mortuaries. We need to be able to have compassion. They have a right to die with dignity," Mr Mseleku said. Some 700,000 workers across the country were called out on Friday, in what analysts say was one of the biggest strikes in the country's history. On Friday, police fired rubber bullets at striking health workers who were preventing patients entering a Cape Town hospital. South Africa has seen many qualified health professionals leaving the country for greener pastures abroad in recent years. E-mail this to a friend 2007: Crucial year for ANC Black faces in new economy S Africa losing its way - Tutu 2010 World Cup challenge Looking forward to gay wedding Zuma case reveals rape problem Photos of the squatters who want to stay in central Johannesburg Crowded 'Alex' in pictures Poor fight for their homes Mbeki: Born into struggle The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Taylor boycotts start of trial S Africa police clash with nurses Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/sci/tech/6715923.stm BBC NEWS | Science/Nature | Nations meet to protect wildlife news when you want it Also in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 04:32 GMT 05:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Nations meet to protect wildlife Environment correspondent, BBC News website Countries are looking to improve protection for animals and plants Elephants and the ivory trade come under the spotlight as the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites) summit opens. Just prior to the opening, a committee voted that a limited sale of stockpiled ivory from southern Africa to Japan could go ahead. Some African countries want a 20-year ban on trading ivory. The two-week meeting in The Hague will also seek protection for the sawfish, cedar, and some corals. Conservation groups are targeting China's tiger farming business. The three-yearly Cites meetings set restrictions on trade in species regarded as endangered or threatened. This year's summit on the 32-year old treaty brings 175 national delegations to The Hague, along with other UN agencies, and conservation and animal welfare organisations. Two starkly different approaches to the largely banned ivory trade will be up for discussion. Threatened organisms listed on three appendices depending on level of risk Appendix 1 - all international trade banned Appendix 2 - international trade monitored and regulated Appendix 3 - trade bans by individual governments, others asked to assist "Uplisting" - moving organism to a more protective appendix, "downlisting" - the reverse Conferences of the Parties (COPs) held every three years Cites administered by UN Environment Programme (Unep) Kenya and Mali are seeking a total 20-year moratorium, while Botswana and Namibia are seeking increased exports. Cites has twice before granted southern African countries the right to export ivory from stockpiles to Asia. Concerns over mechanisms for monitoring the trade had prevented the second sale, approved in 2002, from taking place. But on the eve of the meeting, a technical committee decided that mechanisms to monitor poaching in Africa were sufficiently effective, and that Japan had established proper safeguards to ensure only the designated ivory was imported. South Africa, Botswana and Namibia will sell 60 tonnes to the Asian nation. Conservationists believe any extension in legal exports will fuel the already substantial illegal trade. "Every time Cites even talks about relaxing the ivory ban, poaching goes up," said Peter Pueschel of the International Fund for Animal Welfare (Ifaw). A recent report from the wildlife trade monitoring organisation Traffic said there were now 92 seizures of illegal ivory seizures each month. Fresh from a string of defeats at the International Whaling Commission in Alaska, Japan is trying another route to an expansion of whaling by asking Cites to review restrictions on trading whale meat. Conservation and animal welfare organisations are also alarmed by China's bid for a relaxation of rules on trading products from tiger farms which have sprung up in recent decades. "If you open up a legal trade in tiger parts, it opens up a huge demand which can obviously cause problems for the wild populations," observed Dave Eastham, head of wildlife at the World Society for the Protection of Animals (WSPA). The list of life-forms for which governments are seeking extra protection is dominated by marine organisms. The sawfish, hunted for its spectacular rostrum (snout), the porbeagle shark, and the spiny dogfish (whose meat is sold in British fish and chip shops under the name rock salmon) are all being depleted fast. Red and pink corals, extracted principally in Asia and the Mediterranean and exported mainly to the US for use in necklaces, are also on the target list of conservation-minded governments. However, there is opposition to listing some of these species, notably from the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) which feels effective fisheries management would be a better and less bureaucratic option. On land, protection is being sought for some rosewood and cedar trees. Pau Brazil, whose wood is used in top-of-the-range violin bows, may also gain protection. One long-term issue likely to divide delegates is a proposal that development and poverty concerns should be taken into account when deciding Cites restrictions. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Choices will be made over endangered animals Asian markets push illegal ivory 11 May 07 | Science/Nature Endangered birds on offer in Nicaragua 24 Mar 07 | Americas Pulling species from the brink 19 Mar 07 | Science/Nature Hong Kong animal smuggler held 10 Jan 07 | Asia-Pacific Hunting for conservation solutions 27 Oct 06 | Science/Nature Europe is 'fuelling ivory trade' 28 Sep 05 | Science/Nature The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites China unveils climate change plan Nations meet to protect wildlife UN warning over global ice loss MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6717189.stm BBC NEWS | Scotland | Edinburgh and East | Home search in Vicky murder probe news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:10 GMT 17:10 UK E-mail this to a friend Home search in Vicky murder probe Tobin stayed in Bathgate at about the time Vicky disappeared A search of the former home of killer Peter Tobin has begun as part of the police inquiry into the disappearance of Vicky Hamilton 16 years ago. The 15-year-old was last seen waiting for a bus in Bathgate, West Lothian. Tobin, who is serving 21 years for the murder of Polish student Angelika Kluk in Glasgow in 2006, lived in the town at about the time Vicky disappeared. The property's current residents have been moved out while forensic teams carry out the search. Officers are using specially trained police dogs that can detect minute traces of blood even if they are decades old. Divers are also searching an area of water in a nearby nature reserve. Clearly there has been a considerable time elapsed since Vicky Hamilton went missing Vicky's father, Michael Hamilton, said: "There has been nothing for 17 years so this is a break through for us. "If it comes to the crunch that Vicky is in the garden somewhere then we can finally put her to rest. "I'm coping ok, but this is getting frightening for me in a way that I'm hoping she is still alive but I don't know how I'm going to feel if they find her in the garden, it will be a disaster for me. "The search is a positive thing but the question is, how was this not picked up 17 years ago? My apologies go out to the people who are living in the house now." Vicky disappeared in 1991 while making a journey from Livingston to her home near Falkirk. She had changed buses in Bathgate and was last seen standing at a bus stop in the town. Divers search a nature reserve near Tobin's former home The case was reopened in November after it emerged that Tobin had lived in the Falside area of the town. He was jailed for murdering Ms Kluk in September last year. Tobin raped and stabbed the student before dumping her body underneath St Patrick's Church in Anderston. Lothian and Borders Police said it was anticipated that the search operation would continue at the house in Robertson Avenue for at least two weeks. Supt Brian Doneghan said: "Clearly there has been a considerable time elapsed since Vicky Hamilton went missing and it's incumbent on us to use methodologies which allow us to satisfy ourselves as to whether or not she was ever in that house. "The house has been occupied by different families over that period of time. We are using methods to make sure their traces are eliminated and we are attempting to ascertain if there is any trace of Vicky Hamilton within the house." He added: "Anybody will leave traces of themselves, whether it is DNA, fingerprints or fibres from clothing so we have a number of experts on board within the police service. "We also have experts from academic institutes and private industry who have experience in this sort of search and they are advising us on the best places to look." Dr Adrian Linacre, from the Centre of Forensic Science at Strathclyde University, told BBC Radio's Good Morning Scotland programme that the task facing the police was very difficult. He said: "Like in all cases such as this you're looking for any evidence that might support an abduction, a fight, a struggle of any description. "So you're looking for body fluids, hairs that might have been left at the time. "Here we're looking at something that was 16 years ago so that makes it incredibly difficult." Dr Linacre said more sensitive tests could find fluids like blood at very low levels, but even if any traces were found the relevance would still have to be decided. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Police search Peter Tobin's former home ANGELIKA KLUK TRIAL VERDICT Church apology over Kluk priest Tobin guilty of Angelika's murder Kluk lover's hatred for murderer Community shocked by Tobin trial Polish shock at Angelika murder Key figures in Angelika Kluk trial Timeline: Angelika murder case Witnesses who helped cage killer Day-by-day coverage of the trial In quotes: The Angelika Kluk case Sex killer Tobin's violent past Angelika family in final farewell Body murder probe launched Community's fear and shock Horrific betrayal of church trust Lover's anger over Tobin Lothian and Borders police The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Home search in Vicky murder probe Man charged over girl death crash Tesco 24-hour strike called off MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/entertainment/6719847.stm BBC NEWS | Entertainment | Brand's Brit jokes escape censure news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 16:06 GMT 17:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Russell Brand's sexual references were deemed 'inexplicit' More than 260 complaints about Russell Brand's routine at the Brit Awards have been rejected by media watchdog Ofcom. The host's risque jokes and drug-related references to singer Robbie Williams and Conservative leader David Cameron were investigated. But Ofcom ruled Brand's comments were acceptable in the context of an established music awards ceremony. "A certain amount of controversy was likely to be expected by the audience," the regulator decided. Ofcom did, however, rule that some of Brand's comments had been "on the edge of acceptability". Some 262 viewers complained about the comedian's remarks about intimate body parts, drugs, the Iraq war, the Queen and Robbie Williams. Ofcom requested an explanation from ITV, which broadcast the event, about two specific jokes. In one, Brand referred to Robbie Williams' treatment for an addiction to prescription painkillers and rumours about Mr Cameron's schoolboy cannabis use. The references were acceptable, Ofcom deemed, because they had been part of a "satirical joke". "Importantly, the overall context of the comments made by the presenter was not that drugs were acceptable," it said. Although on the margins of suitability, these comments and jokes were acceptable The other joke under scrutiny was a sexual reference that ITV said was "appropriately and sufficiently limited and inexplicit". ITV broadcast the ceremony from 2000 GMT on 14 February - one hour before the Watershed. But it took measures to minimise any inappropriate material by having a 30-second delay and bleeping any profane language. "Ofcom's view is that on balance, and although on the margins of suitability, these comments and jokes were acceptable in the context of an established music awards ceremony," the ruling said. "Ofcom also considers that the references made about popular culture by the presenter were sufficiently obscure to be beyond the comprehension of young children. "While the comments certainly contained anatomical references, they were scripted in such a way as not to be overtly sexual and were therefore not in breach of the code." It was the first time in 17 years that the ceremony had been televised live. Brand was booed by some members of the audience at London's Earls Court for making a humorous reference to the Iraq war and the "friendly fire" death of British serviceman Matty Hull. Ofcom did not request an explanation from ITV about this comment in the wake of viewer complaints. E-mail this to a friend Music and glamour combine at this year's Brit Awards Arctic Monkeys scoop Brits double Full Brit Awards winners list The ceremony in quotes Nominee profiles and audio clips Viewers complain over Brits jokes The Arctic Monkeys' rapid rise Brits' history of bad behaviour Host Brand's colourful career James Morrison sings the blues LOOKING BACK AT 2006 Triple Brits success for Kaisers Highs and lows of musical year The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Dannii to become X Factor judge MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6718417.stm BBC NEWS | Politics | 'More inquiries' in honours probe news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 10:15 GMT 11:15 UK E-mail this to a friend 'More inquiries' in honours probe Assistant Commissioner John Yates has been heading up the inquiry The Crown Prosecution Service has asked cash-for-honours probe police to "undertake further inquiries". Scotland Yard handed over its main file in April to the CPS, which will decide whether any charges will be brought. Police interviewed 136 people while probing whether honours were given to people in return for money. Four people were questioned under caution, including members of Tony Blair's inner circle. All deny wrong-doing. No-one has been charged. The investigation began a year ago, after it emerged that secret loans had been made to Labour before the 2005 general election, and that some lenders had subsequently been nominated for peerages. The inquiry was widened to cover the other main parties. Among those questioned as potential witnesses were Tony Blair and former Conservative leader Michael Howard. Those arrested and questioned under caution were head teacher Des Smith, who was involved in the government's city academies programme, Labour donor Sir Christopher Evans, Downing Street adviser Ruth Turner and Labour's chief fundraiser Lord Levy. In February the CPS said Mr Smith would not face any charges. The police investigation appeared to switch its focus in recent months, from the question of cash-for-peerages to allegations of a cover-up. E-mail this to a friend Police hand honours file to CPS Aide alleged Levy 'lie' request BBC injunction request declined No injunction regrets - Goldsmith PM blasts SNP over probe What the cash-for-peerages affair is all about at-a-glance Lord Levy: Labour's fundraiser Who's who: Cash for honours row Q&A: Political party funding Laws at centre of probe Guide: Peers and House of Lords Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/default.stm BBC NEWS | News Front Page in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:52 GMT 21:52 UK condemns Russia's threat to aim weapons at Europe over the planned US missile defence shield. New era of discord Q&A: US missile defence Gorbachev criticises US 'empire' Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Politicians must listen harder to the "calm voice of moderation and reason" of most Muslims, Tony Blair says. London unveils logo of 2012 Games A jagged logo for the 2012 Olympics will be "the very heart of our brand", says chairman Lord Coe. Angelika killer's home searched Ex-Liberia leader boycotts trial Cancer-drug refund scheme plan Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Investigation into chemical fire Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine Launch date for iPhone revealed ALSO IN THE NEWS Tony Blair appears at the Royal Academy of Art - in the nude Boot camp for China's budding hairdressers Tennis: Nadal passes Hewitt test Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Hilton starts jail sentence Putin makes nuclear threat Cancer drug refunds backed Body find sparks murder hunt More Video / Audio News TV AND RADIO PROGRAMMES BBC Ten O'Clock News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Hilton starts jail sentence Amsterdam's nude photo shoot Putin makes nuclear threat London reveals logo for 2012 London logo divides opinion AROUND THE WORLD NOW S Africa police clash with nurses China unveils climate change plan Missing US soldiers' IDs on video Seven Turks killed in rebel raid New vow to spread Lebanon battle New controls on media in Pakistan AROUND THE UK NOW Soldier admits five crash deaths Rodgers gets city's top civic job Penalty for poison case gamekeeper Cycle deaths road 'not gritted' MORE FROM BBC NEWS Bates regains Leeds Utd control 'More inquiries' in honours probe Killer heart condition 'ignored' Empty school places reach 758,000 Nations meet to protect wildlife Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Europe online '24 hours a month' Should the UK fund the training of imams? Help us make the news, with your pictures, views and stories MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail From taxation to TV - islanders address our readers' questions The UK patients who travel to China for stem cell treatment Missing for 84 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/north_east/6716199.stm BBC NEWS | Wales | North East Wales | Cycle deaths road 'not gritted' News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 14:12 GMT 15:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Cycle deaths road 'not gritted' The four cyclists had just started out on a long Sunday training ride A road on which four members of Rhyl Cycling Club were killed in a collision was not gritted on the morning of the tragedy, an inquest jury has heard. Thomas Harland, 14, Maurice Broadbent, 61, Dave Horrocks, 55, and Wayne Wilkes, 42, died in January 2006 after a car skidded on ice near Abergele. Day one of the inquest heard from the father of the youngest victim. Coroner John Hughes warned the jury the hearing at Abergele would be emotional, but added: "No one is on trial here". Addressing the jury on Monday, Mr Hughes told them they would hear how the route was not one gritted by Conwy Council on the morning of 8 January, despite frost having been forecast. This is going to be a case of high emotion. You must remain aloof from the emotion Mr Hughes, coroner for North East Wales, also said there had been another accident near the scene on the same morning, and the police had been in touch with the council about conditions on the road. Two police officers contacted their control room after briefly losing control of their Ford Galaxy that morning, the inquest heard. Mr Hughes said evidence they would hear would vary from those who thought the condition of the road was "appalling," to those who did not notice any adverse conditions. He also told the jury they would have to consider whether it was safe for cyclists to be out. He then warned them: "This is going to be a case of high emotion. You must remain aloof from the emotion." The four cyclists died on the A547 Rhuddlan Road not far from the start of a 60-mile (97km) Sunday club ride to Llandudno's Great Orme and back. Motorist Robert Harris, 47, from Abergele, was fined £180 with £35 costs last August and given six points on his licence after admitting having defective tyres. The court heard that the defective tyres were not a factor in the accident. The coroner said: "Experts say it matters not whether the tyres were bald or brand new. It's a question of ice on the road." Defective car tyres were not a "contributory factor," a court heard On the first day of the inquest, the heartbroken father of Thomas Harland, the youngest victim, described how the family had been robbed of an "unforgettable" son and brother. Jon Harland was cycling with his son and broke a leg in the collision. He told the inquest: "Thomas was an unforgettable boy. "Sharon, my wife, and myself couldn't have brought up a better son and brother for Jessica and Sally. He was caring and considerate. He was good academically and athletically. "Everyone who knew him warmed to him. He was happy right to the end when he was stolen from us." The coroner has previously criticised delays on the full inquest getting under way. Before Mr Harland gave evidence, Mr Hughes told him: "I'm far from happy it's taken this long to get the case before court. "I'm sure it must have prolonged your agony unnecessarily." The court also heard from Susan Broadbent, whose husband Maurice was killed. She said her husband was a founder member of the cycling club, adding: "Everything was for safety. He wouldn't have gone out that day if he felt it was dangerous." The inquest, which continues, is expected to last up to six weeks, and will hear from around 200 witnesses. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS "The members of Rhyl cycling club were like a family" Up-to-date information from across the region Get all the latest from around the region Compensation for cyclists' deaths 05 Apr 07 | North East Wales New anger over cyclists' inquest 18 Jan 07 | Wales Cyclists inquest delay criticised 01 Dec 06 | Wales Tyre fine for bike deaths driver 03 Aug 06 | Wales Memorial ride for tragic cyclists 22 Mar 06 | Wales Tributes to cycle crash victims 09 Jan 06 | Wales Four cyclists killed in car crash 08 Jan 06 | North West Wales The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTH EAST WALES STORIES Cycle deaths road 'not gritted' Bird flu numbers are tailing off Protest over dead biker's photo MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/ BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
