http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/uk_politics/03/shadow_cabinet/html/default.stm on the images below for shadow cabinet member profiles Leader in the Lords Office of Deputy PM Leader - David Cameron The Old Etonian only entered Parliament in 2001 but his polished performances in the leadership campaign paved the way for victory over David Davis by a margin of more than two-to-one. Before becoming leader he was Tory campaign co-ordinator in the 2005 general election and shadow education secretary. He was special adviser to Home Secretary Michael Howard and Chancellor Norman Lamont in the 1990s. But he also spent seven years in business as a communications director for Carlton. Lib Dem front bench
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6708977.stm | Ellam to be Downing St spokesman 31 May 2007, 14:42 GMT 15:42 UK to be Downing St spokesman Tories appoint press chief Treasury official Michael Ellam is to be head of communications in Downing Street when Gordon Brown takes over as prime minister on 27 June. Mr Ellam has worked for Mr Brown since he became chancellor in 1997, and for his predecessor Ken Clarke before that. During a decade at the Treasury Mr Ellam, 38, has held numerous posts, including head of communications and strategy for three years from 2000. He will handle daily briefings for the press as the PM's offical spokesman. He will replace Tom Kelly who has been Tony Blair's official spokesman. In 2004, Mr Ellam was appointed as director of policy and planning at the Treasury, with responsibility for short to medium-term coordination of policy. News of his appointment comes on the same day as the Conservative party announced that former News of the World editor Andy Coulson is to become its director of communications. issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6705409.stm | Tories accuse Brown of 'cronyism' 30 May 2007, 19:49 GMT 20:49 UK accuse Brown of 'cronyism' Mr Brown is joining deputy leadership candidates at hustings Gordon Brown has been accused of cronyism after it emerged some of the donors to his leadership campaign had previously been given government posts. Senior Tory Chris Grayling said some of the £110,000 amassed by the campaign came from a "small clique" of donors. He said Mr Brown had pledged a new type of politics, but was "incapable of breaking with the culture of cronyism". Mr Brown's campaign said the Tories had impugned the reputation of respected people, whose support they welcomed. Figures from the Electoral Commission show Mr Brown's campaign has attracted cash donations of £101,700 and offers of services worth £11,070. Among donors were Paul Myners, Lord Leitch and John Miskelly, whom Mr Brown appointed to senior positions on independent reviews and who each gave £9,700, £5,000 and £2,000 respectively. Tory frontbencher Mr Grayling said: "Gordon Brown claims he wants a new type of politics. Many of these donors have been appointed to government posts by Gordon Brown and are now paying the chancellor back "But the funding of his campaign shows that he is incapable of breaking with the culture of cronyism that has dogged the government for years. "The reality is that many of these donors have been appointed to government posts by Gordon Brown and are now paying the chancellor back. "It's quite clear that Gordon Brown intends to carry on leading a 'You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours' government." But a spokesman for Mr Brown's campaign dismissed Mr Grayling's criticisms. It is sadly typical of today's Tories to impugn the integrity of such individuals, simply because they happen not to be Tories Spokesman for Brown campaign He said: "We are pleased to have such widespread support for Gordon's campaign from donors who have distinguished themselves in various fields of business, including some who have also done excellent work for the country in encouraging the development of schools and investment. "It is sadly typical of today's Tories to impugn the integrity of such individuals, simply because they happen not to be Tories." He added that the money would be spent on hiring office space and sending correspondence to party members. Mr Brown is the only leadership candidate, although he is joining deputy leadership candidates at hustings events until he is formally named Labour leader on 24 June. did the six deputy leader hopefuls get on during Newsnight debate? Deputy contenders split over Iraq Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq Hain says Labour 'like reserves' Benn calls for straight politics Brown 'humbled' by MPs' support Blair to Brown: Limbo time? What will Brown do as PM? Q&A: What happens now? Labour leader election timetable From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_depth/uk_politics/2007/blair_years/default.stm Reports | Blair years Blair years 1997-2007 Wednesday, 23 May, 2007, 15:22 GMT 16:22 UK The Tony Blair story The life and times of Tony Blair - from rebellious schoolboy to world statesman. A decade of highs and lows From election landslides to Iraq invasion: how key events mapped to Blair's poll ratings. How will history judge him? Three experts give their views on how history will regard Tony Blair. Born 1953, becomes Labour leader and elected prime minister in THE 10 AGES OF BLAIR Today's the day an experiment in 'new politics' begins... How the UK economy fared over 10 years The ups and downs of life as the prime minister's wife Key moments: Blair's decade at the top Blair years: In his words The legacy of Cherie Blair Iraq overshadows foreign policy The rise and fall of spin Blair's public service record Bush hails 'good friend' Blair Campbell pays tribute to Blair Galloway: Blair will be damned How Blair put the media in a spin The BBC's Andrew Marr on the most media-obsessed government of modern times. BBC home editor Mark Easton assesses the impact on the UK's public services. It was 'education, education, education' in 1997, but what was achieved? Answering 'the Irish question' How a dogged commitment to the peace process eventually bore fruit. BBC diplomatic correspondent James Robbins on the defining foreign policy legacy. Did they blow it? BBC Economics Editor Evan Davis on the dire predictions for UK finances under Labour. '24 hours to save the NHS' Record budget increases, battling against deficits... but did Blair deliver on healthcare? Rock 'n' roll PM The BBC's David Sillito looks at the cultural impact of the Blair years. IN HIS OWN WORDS I give my thanks to you, the British people, for the times I have succeeded, and my apologies to you for the times I have fallen short Resignation speech, 10 May 2007 Who's had the last laugh - the prime minister or the satirists? How life in Britain changed Wars, rigged elections and murder - how prime ministerial departures compare A decade in pictures How terror battle was fought at home and abroad The global view, assessed by BBC correspondents Record as war leader will stay with him Lasting impact on the European Union Bush and Blair - A bond forged in ruins of 9/11 New-look civil liberties and a tricky balancing act Bremner's take on Blair-Brown Where are they now? Clickable guide to Blair's first cabinet Life after No 10 Michael Crick looks at what prime ministers do after losing power Making a new party Was New Labour the greatest achievement of Tony Blair? How comics and actors put their spin on Tony Blair's career ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6707235.stm | 'No evidence' of CCTV data breach 31 May 2007, 13:34 GMT 14:34 UK evidence' of CCTV data breach The Information Commissioner is against covert surveillance The Information Commissioner's Office says it has not seen evidence which suggests that most CCTV systems are breaching its own code of practice. Newly-launched industry body Camerawatch has said its own research showed 90% of CCTV was not complying. Camerawatch said this could have an impact if images from incorrectly used CCTV were presented as legal evidence. But the commission said no audit of CCTV systems had been done: "We don't believe there is any such evidence." The commission does not have audit and inspection powers itself, but has enforcement powers and can investigate complaints of CCTV being used in breach of the Data Protection Act. There are up to 4.2m CCTV cameras in Britain - about one for every 14 people. The code of practice, set to be updated shortly, is to help organisations comply with the act and the commission welcomed Camerawatch's aim of promoting compliance. Camerawatch director Phil Mackie said breaches of the act could have consequences in court. "When evidence is presented in court, it could well be that even before they get to court, if the system is deemed to not have been operating under data protection properly - and there are 70 odd points of law, if it's not been run correctly then the evidence could well be challenged," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. The code of practice covers such areas as signage, permission and storage of images. "If you're operating a CCTV system that captures the public, anything apart from one in your own house, then you must be registered with the Information Commissioner. "And if you're not registered, then it means the system is not compliant with data protection," he said. "You wouldn't leave your personnel files lying about in an office for anybody to see. "That's exactly the same as any tapes or information - you wouldn't leave them lying about, you need to keep them stored in a secure area, and within that secure area, you need to have a kind of login procedure, to make sure that you know who has and who hasn't got access to that equipment." protection worries over CCTV 30 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Warning over 'talking CCTV' plans 01 May 07 | Politics MPs probe 'surveillance society' 22 Mar 07 | Politics The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6704235.stm Ireland | Ministers criticised on care vote 30 May 2007, 11:35 GMT 12:35 UK criticised on care vote The assembly voted to provide free personal care for the elderly Finance minister Peter Robinson has said some members of the executive broke the ministerial code by backing a vote on free care for the elderly. Mr Robinson said the executive had unanimously agreed not to vote for high-spending measures unless all ministers supported them. He said to provide this service would increase regional rates by 25 to 30%. "I remember the hullabaloo there was when the direct rule ministers increased it by 19%," he added. "We need to have some rational thought about how we propose to deal with these issues." On Tuesday, the assembly voted in favour of Health Minister Michael McGimpsey examining providing free personal care for the elderly. A UUP amendment asked the Executive "to consider the costs and method of delivery in the context of the Comprehensive Spending Review and in light of the other budgetary pressures facing the Executive". and contacts to help you act on older people's issues Warning over costs of free care 21 Mar 05 | Scotland Ministers deny care sums 'wrong' 16 Feb 05 | Scotland Free elderly care 'over budget' 15 Feb 05 | Scotland Factcard offers elderly insight 31 Jan 05 | Scotland Scottish Executive: free elderly care The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/uk_politics/05/ld_front_bench/html/default.stm Dem front bench Click on the images below for Liberal Democrat front bench member profiles Chief whip in Commons Chief whip in Lords Leader's chief of staff Leader - Sir Menzies Campbell For a former Olympic sprinter, Sir Menzies Campbell had rather a slow journey to the top in politics. He was drawn to the then Liberals by the leadership of Jo Grimmond in the 1960s but it was not until 1987 that he finally entered the Commons after three attempts to win his North East Fife constituency. Sir Menzies was quickly appointed to the front bench, speaking on defence under the leadership of Paddy Ashdown. He was subsequently made Lib Dem foreign affairs spokesman and acting leader following the resignation of Charles Kennedy. In his mid-sixties, he presides over a young Lib Dem team, one of whom was born in 1980. Sir Menzies has promised to be a "safe pair of hands", but also to "take risks" to win support and power for his party.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/81344.stm | Links to UK political websites 10 January 2007, 11:14 GMT to UK political websites Political parties in House of Commons Parties with members in Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly, London Assembly or European Parliament The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites POLITICAL PARTIES IN COMMONS These parties have one or more MPs in the House of Commons: Social Democratic and Labour Party Ulster Democratic Unionist Party Respect - The Unity Coalition Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern PARTIES WITH MEMBERS IN SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT, WELSH ASSEMBLY, LONDON ASSEMBLY OR EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT Green Party of England and Wales Green Party of Scotland POLITICAL PARTIES REGISTERED BY ELECTORAL COMMISSION Adam Lyal's Witchery Tour Party Alliance for Green Socialism Alliance Party of Northern Ireland Church of the Militant Elvis Party Communist Party of Britain Conservative And Unionist Party Dorset Stop The War English Progressive & Liberty Party Highlands & Islands Alliance - Càirdeas Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern Independent Working Class Association Iranian Civil Rights Committee John Marek Independent Party Local Education Action By Parents Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall No Candidate Deserves My Vote! Northern Ireland Women's Coalition Northern Ireland Unionist Party Official Monster Raving Loony Party Organisation of Free Democrats People Against Bureaucracy Action Group Plaid Cymru- Party of Wales Progressive Union Party of Northern Ireland Protect Rural Scotland Party Residents Associations of Epsom and Ewell Respect - The Unity Coalition Revolutionary Communist Party Britain Rock 'n Roll Loony Party Save Our NHS Group Scottish Senior Citizens Unity Party SDLP (Social Democratic & Labour Party) Socialist Party of Great Britain Socialist Party (Northern Ireland) Swindon Org UK Party Thames Ditton / Weston Green Residents' Association UKpopdems - Popular Democrats United Kingdom Independence Party United Kingdom Unionist Party U.K.U.P. Upminster and Cranham Residents Association Vote 2 Stop The War West Ewell and Ruxley Residents' Association Department for Communities and Local Government Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Department for Culture, Media and Sport Department for Education and Skills Foreign and Commonwealth Office Department for International Development Department for Constitutional Affairs Department for Work and Pensions Department of Trade and Industry Hansard - House of Commons Hansard - House of Lords Her Majesty's Stationery Office Central Office of Information Office for National Statistics National Assembly for Wales London Mayor and London Assembly What Downing Street says There are far too many political blogs to list in full, but Alan Connor, from the BBC's Daily Politics programme, has written a guide to them which includes links to many of the best known. Alan Connor's guide to political blogs issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6704145.stm | Government to sell nuclear shares 30 May 2007, 16:16 GMT 17:16 UK to sell nuclear shares British Energy has had problems with its Hinkley power plant recently The government is to sell more of its stake in nuclear energy firm British Energy, to fund the cost of shutting down nuclear power stations. The sale of 400 million shares will cut the government's stake from 64% to 39%. The aim is to make the Nuclear Liabilities Fund, intended to cover nuclear clean-up costs, less reliant on British Energy shares. The news came as the firm announced a 44% rise in underlying annual profits to £1.22bn, buoyed by rising prices. The government first announced its plans to reduce its stake in the UK's biggest energy producer in the 2006 Budget. The latest sale - to financial institutions - is to take place immediately. Despite the rise in profits, British Energy said that problems at two of its power plants had continued to disrupt its electricity production levels. Heysham 1 and 2, Lancashire Hinkley Point B, Somerset Check British Energy shares The firm warned last year that it had discovered cracked pipes in nuclear plants at Hinkley Point in Somerset and Hunterston in Ayrshire. Both sites shut as a result of the problems, and were only given the go-ahead to restart the plants at the start of this month. As a result of the closures, energy output fell to 58.4 terawatt hours (TWh) from 68.4 TWh a year earlier. But during the period, power prices jumped to record levels as a result of the rising cost of natural gas, allowing British Energy to fix sales at higher levels. As a result, fixed contract prices rose to £44.20 per megawatt hour (MWh) compared with £32 in the previous year. British Energy - which generates around one-sixth of the country's energy needs - owns eight nuclear power stations and one coal-fired station in Eggborough, East Yorkshire and employs about 6,000 staff. However, the update and news of the government's stake sale failed to impress investors. Shares in the group closed down 5.6% at 537 pence in London. plant gets nod to restart 11 May 07 | Somerset Safety approved at nuclear plants 03 May 07 | Somerset Nuclear firm seeks new partners 07 Mar 07 | England Reactor crack fears played down 05 Jul 06 | UK Repair delays hit British Energy 20 Dec 06 | Business Power prices lift British Energy 17 Nov 06 | Business The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites US economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6702865.stm | Brown urges drug strategy rethink 30 May 2007, 21:24 GMT 22:24 UK urges drug strategy rethink Mr Brown will say drugs strategy needs to enter a new phase Britain needs a change in strategy in the fight against drugs, Gordon Brown has said, following a meeting with police officers in Birmingham. Mr Brown, who will succeed Tony Blair as prime minister, admitted there was a "big problem" and called for earlier treatment for addicts. He also says education schemes should start at primary schools and more role models are needed to raise awareness. "We have a big problem and we are going to need a new approach," he said. Although Mr Brown is the only candidate for the party leadership, he is taking part in hustings events alongside the six candidates for the deputy post. He has pledged to use the time before he becomes prime minister "listening and learning" to police, hospital staff and others across the country. On Wednesday, he held private meetings with police chiefs and staff in Birmingham, before discussing drugs at the hustings event in the evening. There has been a 16% decline in drug use since 1998, but levels remain unacceptably high, he said. We cannot allow a situation to develop where so many thousands of young people in particular become victims of drug dealers The value of the illegal drugs market in the UK is around £5bn, the government says, while drugs-related crime in England and Wales is thought to cost more than £13bn. Mr Brown said he had been told that 75% of all crimes in Birmingham where money was stolen was drugs-related. "We cannot allow a situation to develop where so many thousands of young people in particular become victims of drug dealers," he said. "And we can't allow a situation to develop where we start to treat them and then we lose them and they become completely remote from the medical services that can help them." He also said he wanted to be able to treat addicts earlier, before they got arrested or imprisoned. He advocated the use of more community role models and ensure better education about the dangers of drugs at primary as well as secondary school. Community leaders have not been consulted enough and drugs education schemes have concentrated too much on secondary schools, according to the chancellor. Mr Brown also said public advertising campaigns - like the Frank campaign - needed to be reviewed and the effectiveness of drug treatment orders, testing orders and community orders. Richard Kramer, policy director at the drugs charity Turning Point, welcomed Mr Brown's "openness" and urged the government to make the health impact of drug use its top priority. He said there was a "new generation" of injecting drugs users and HIV and Hepatitis C among them was rising. He added that a "holistic approach" was needed, where addicts were given housing and employment support as well as drug treatment - to help reduce drug-related crime. In April a report by 12 experts for the independent UK Drug Policy Commission found that the UK had an unusually severe drugs problem and the government's strategy had had a limited impact. policy has 'limited impact' 14-year-olds 'use cannabis daily' Drug laws 'need major overhaul' Drug classification rethink urged Drugs 'blight most parts of UK' Crystal meth increasing problem 'Crack took over my life' Q&A: Giving addicts heroin How drugs are trafficked into UK from source countries Turkey at the drugs crossroads 'I was a drugs mule' Drugs in the UK: Key facts Gauging the UK's drugs use Drugs info & help agencies Do drug laws need an overhaul? Drug laws 'need major overhaul' 08 Mar 07 | UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6703813.stm | Shoplifters to get fine 'let-off' 30 May 2007, 10:29 GMT 11:29 UK to get fine 'let-off' Retailers have criticised the new guidance on shoplifting Shoplifters facing on-the-spot fines could have the penalties written off if they promise to behave. Fines of £80 or £50 will be deferred if the offender agrees to be bound by an Acceptable Behaviour Contract (ABC). The British Retail Consortium (BRC) has criticised the scheme for treating criminals "like naughty schoolboys". Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said it watered down criminal justice but the Home Office said it was a different tool to help police tackle the problem. The penalty will be cancelled if the person behaves during the ABC which can last as little as three months. Shoplifting is a crime, pure and simple, and it should be treated as one Police were handed powers to give a Penalty Notices for Disorder (PND) in 2004 for offences such as stealing goods worth less than £200, being drunk and disorderly and wasting police time. Mr Davis said: "It is bad enough such serious crimes are effectively being punished with a glorified parking ticket. Now we learn the government won't even bother to collect the fine." The BRC said the move undermined the system of dealing with shoplifters even more. BRC director general Kevin Hawkins said: "Shoplifting is a crime, pure and simple, and it should be treated as one." The BRC recently said the introduction of fixed penalties had led to a big increase in shoplifting. A Home Office spokesman said: "Deferred PNDs sit alongside Acceptable Behaviour Contracts. They are both tools for police and local authorities to use to promote a change in an individual's behaviour. "Breaching the terms of an ABC can have serious consequences. The next step may be the issuing of an ASBO for example." The Home Office issued new guidance on the use of PNDs and ABCs following a 12-week consultation. fines 'boost shoplifting' 19 May 07 | UK Shoplifting 'too easy' says study 10 Apr 07 | Leicestershire Shoplifting up '70% since 2000' 11 Oct 06 | UK 'No jail for shoplifters' anger 25 Aug 06 | UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/guides/456900/456937/html/nn1page1.stm Depth | The Cabinet at a Glance Click on the images below for Cabinet member profiles Leader of the Lords Prime Minister - Tony Blair Tony Blair has secured a place in the record books as the only Labour prime minister to have won three successive general elections. He has said he will serve a full third term but that he will not seek re-election a fourth time. Mr Blair is credited, along with Gordon Brown and Peter Mandelson, with rebranding Labour as "New Labour" in a bid to reach beyond the party's traditional working-class support, ditching its historic commitment to public ownership and moving it towards the centre ground of British politics. Mr Blair's politics are, perhaps, shaped by the fact that he is not from a traditional working-class Labour background, having attended the prestigious Fettes public school, in Edinburgh, and Oxford University, where he studied law and played in a student rock band. On his election as an MP in 1983, he quickly rose through the parliamentary ranks. But it was as shadow home secretary in the early 1990s that he really made his name, venturing onto traditional Conservative territory with his pledge to be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". He soon became one of the Labour politicians most widely talked of as the next Labour leader. The opportunity came earlier than expected following the untimely death of John Smith in 1994. It was also at this point that his relationship with his one-time mentor, Gordon Brown, fractured over who would stand back in favour of whom in the leadership contest. But it was the 11 September attacks, and the ensuing "war on terror", that transformed Mr Blair from a politician with a largely domestic agenda into a war leader whose advocacy of the invasion of Iraq split public opinion and divided his own party. Lib Dem front bench
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6701163.stm | Iraq detainees 'treated humanely' 29 May 2007, 14:46 GMT 15:46 UK detainees 'treated humanely' Lord Goldsmith is the government's chief legal adviser British troops in Iraq are bound by "strong requirements" to treat detainees humanely, the attorney general Lord Goldsmith says. He dismissed a media report claiming he had advised military commanders that the Human Rights Act did not apply when detaining and interrogating prisoners. He called the Independent story "ridiculous" as soldiers were still bound by the Geneva Convention. However, he said he was concerned that some interrogation practices continued. The Independent reported that emails between Lord Goldsmith, the government's legal adviser, and British military headquarters in Iraq suggested he had advised that it was not necessary to follow the "higher standards" of the Human Rights Act when handling prisoners. It also suggested that Lord Goldsmith's views were at odds with those of Lt Col Nicholas Mercer, the Army's most senior legal adviser on the ground, who felt the European Convention on Human Rights did apply. Speaking to BBC Radio 4's World at One programme, Lord Goldsmith said the question of whether the Human Rights Act - which incorporates the ECHR - applied to British soldiers worldwide, was still being tested in the courts. The requirements of the Geneva Convention are that there can be no inhuman or degrading treatment But he added: "They are bound by British criminal law, they are bound by the Geneva Convention, they are bound by Hague regulations. "These are strong requirements which is why, of course, we have seen prosecutions in Camp Bread Basket [and] in relation to the death of Baha Mousa, and other cases." In 2005, after photographs of abuse were uncovered, three British soldiers were jailed for abusing Iraqi civilians at Camp Bread Basket in Basra. In April 2007 Cpl Donald Payne was dismissed from the Army and jailed, after admitting inhumanely treating detainees in Basra in 2003. Six other soldiers were cleared of abusing the detainees - who included hotel worker Baha Mousa, who later died in British custody. The Law Lords are currently considering whether the deaths of six Iraqi civilians, including Mr Mousa, at the hands of the British are subject to UK human rights law. Baha Mousa died in British custody But Lord Goldsmith said it was wrong to suggest that the Human Rights Act required higher standards of treatment, than the Geneva Convention. "In terms of the treatment of detainees ... the requirements of the Geneva Convention are that there can be no inhuman or degrading treatment, that there can't be torture, that people have got to be treated humanely." The court martial heard that senior officers had sanctioned the "conditioning" of detainees, including the use of hooding and stress positions, before interrogation. Lord Goldsmith added: "I was very concerned as to how it came about that certain people thought it was appropriate to use certain treatment - hooding, so-called conditioning - when many of us thought these particular practices had been outlawed in 1972, and I still want to see that looked into." Parliament's Joint Committee on Human Rights has also asked the Ministry of Defence to explain its use of interrogation techniques. soldier jailed over Iraq abuse 30 Apr 07 | UK Law Lords consider Iraqi deaths 17 Apr 07 | UK Iraq abuse case soldiers jailed 25 Feb 05 | UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6705939.stm | Edinburgh and East | Salmond under transport pressure 31 May 2007, 12:30 GMT 13:30 UK under transport pressure The SNP has described the bridge tolls as unfair First Minister Alex Salmond has come under Labour pressure to keep the Edinburgh airport rail link and trams projects on track. It came as the minority government is thought to have gathered enough MSP support to scrap tolls on the Tay and Forth road bridges. During First Minister's Question Time, Mr Salmond said he was not convinced about the Edinburgh transport projects. However, he was urged to continue with them without further delay. Following pressure from Labour, the Liberal Democrats and Tories, the SNP administration will later accept a cross-party parliamentary amendment not to "arbitrarily" delay or cancel the Edinburgh tram and airport rail projects, which have already received parliamentary approval. Scottish Labour leader Jack McConnell demanded of the first minister: "Will you accept that decision and proceed with the new airport rail link with no further prevarication - yes or no?". Mr Salmond, who expressed concern about "cost over-run" in capital projects, said financial assessments would be brought to parliament at an early opportunity. He added: "Jack McConnell will know that as part of the perfectly normal constitutional arrangement, except in certain circumstances, the Scottish Executive is not necessarily bound by resolutions or motions passed by the Scottish Parliament." AND AUDIO NEWS Trams are considered one way to ease the jams Union unease at bridge toll plans 30 May 07 | Scotland Salmond plans to end bridge tolls 23 May 07 | Scotland Party moves to scrap bridge tolls 30 Mar 07 | Scotland Ministers to back Forth crossing 10 Feb 07 | Scotland Bridges debate ends in stalemate 08 Feb 07 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Witness appeal after hit-and-run OAP billed for home's demolition Injured quad bike boy abandoned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://www.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/blogs/opensecrets/ Secrets to main content A blog about freedom of information by Martin Rosenbaum Police FOI in Ireland and Birmingham 31 May 07, 04:28 PM Interesting to note that the will now become subject to freedom of information. And this is a good reminder that the UK's FOI system is much more wide-ranging than some of its international counterparts in terms of the extensive list of public bodies that it already covers. Indeed some of the most interesting disclosures in the UK have come from police forces. Here's one reported in today's , about the lack of body armour for police support officers, which actually provides a good example of the use of FOI by an MP (Tom Watson) to get information that he could not obtain from ministers. OGC still fights Gateway case 30 May 07, 11:45 AM Update on yesterday's entry: The Office of Government Commerce is not releasing the Gateway review of the ID cards project, but is appealing the Tribunal's decision to the High Court. The OGC says it regards confidentiality as essential to the Gateway process. Unsurprisingly this decision does not meet with the approval of today's Is the gateway open? 29 May 07, 10:41 AM The Department for Trade and Industry isn't happy at the way freedom of information is going, as the recently reported of the Trade Secretary Alistair Darling make clear. The DTI doesn't like the fact that FOI disclosures have to be decided on a case-by-case basis, because of 'the incremental harm to the policy development process that must inevitably arise from the disclosure of individually innocuous submissions'. There is clearly deep unease within the DTI about decisions from the Information Tribunal that have now started to open up the highly sensitive area of policy discussion within government - a development I have noted Mr Darling's letter refers to the 'discernible trend within the Information Tribunal that decisions on the public interest test have not been falling in the government's favour in key cases'. Perhaps Whitehall will derive some hope from the suggestion that the problem of delay, which has badly affected the rest of the FOI system, may now threaten the Tribunal's operations too. This is according to a useful about caseflow on the IMPACT blog about information law, although the Tribunal is responding by trying to speed up its processes. Currently about a quarter of the Commissioner's decisions are appealed by one side or the other to the Tribunal. In another more recent and also important , the Tribunal has ruled that the Office of Government Commerce should release a of the ID cards project. The OGC has until tomorrow to announce whether it will comply or fight on by appealing to the High Court - and this will be a very interesting decision in what is a significant test case. 25 May 07, 04:38 PM Campaign for Freedom of Information that we should believe the briefing about intention to drop the government's planned restrictions on FOI, whatever the views of the ministers currently involved ... There's a significant Parliamentary in the Mail on Sunday and elsewhere of David Maclean's now ... The presentations from yesterday's . The Information Commissioner Richard Thomas indicated that he would help public bodies dismiss 'vexatious' requests and that he will also be promoting a charter for 'responsible' use of FOI by those seeking information. 23 May 07, 12:04 PM David Maclean has now announced that he would like his Bill on MPs and FOI to be amended so that it requires the Commons to publish every year the figures for MPs' travel, accommodation, incidental expenses, secretarial and other allowances. This would convert the Speaker's pledge to do this into a legal obligation. It will be presented as a compromise and may shore up some of the diminishing support for the Bill. But it would make little difference to its actual practical impact. The Bill would still exempt Parliament generally from freedom of information. So even if the Commons has to carry on publishing the summary information about MPs' allowances that it already does, it means that MPs would not be threatened by further cases where the Information Commissioner might force them to reveal more and more detail about how they spend their allowances. Some MPs back the Bill because they would find more detailed disclosures uncomfortably intrusive. And the Bill would also completely rule out other requests (one example ) to the Parliamentary authorities for information relating to how the Houses of Parliament are run. 23 May 07, 09:46 AM Group-think - have you ever succumbed to it? I know I have. You share experiences and interests with the rest of a group, you reinforce each other's assumptions and beliefs, you embrace the apparent consensus - and then you're taken aback when you discuss it with outsiders who turn out to have a very different perspective on the issue involved. It's not an unknown phenomemon in the BBC. Nor is it in the House of Commons. Last week, when I heard MPs talk about the need to amend the FOI law to put themselves outside it, I was struck by the disparity between how they regarded their own concerns about their position and how their action would be regarded by the general public - and by their apparent ignorance of the size of this disparity. Perhaps not so much group-think as Commons-think or possibly common-think. Anyway the Labour and Tory leaderships have clearly realised, if somewhat belatedly, the damage to the reputation of Parliament caused by the passing of the Maclean Bill, whatever their view of the merits of it. Those words 'compromise' and 'climbdown' are in the air. The Bill will clearly not pass the Lords in its current form, if it passes at all. Clause 1(2) in the Bill exempts all information held by Parliament from the FOI Act. Clause 1(3) exempts MPs' correspondence held by other public authorities. These two proposals are completely separate. If the Bill had only included the latter in the first place, and not the former, then (leaving the other arguments aside) it would have been much better for the public standing of the British political class. But, whatever happens with this Bill, it's also worth reviewing the state of current ministerial thinking on the government's plans to restrict FOI generally . These will have much more impact in curtailing FOI than the Maclean Bill. Currently public bodies can turn down FOI requests if it would take too long to find the information. The government wants to allow them also to take into account the cost of reading it and considering and consulting others on whether to disclose. Ministers are still keen on this plan, even though they are now also consulting the public on whether any change to the FOI rules is necessary at all. They argue that these costs exist and so in principle should be reflected. They understand the counter-arguments - that in practice their plan will prevent valuable disclosures, while being open to abuse, providing perverse incentives to inefficiency, and prompting an increase in appeals which would reduce the cost savings. They look to the Information Commissioner to deal with such problems. The other government proposal last December was to allow public bodies to 'aggregate' all the requests received from one organisation within three months in working out whether the cost limit is exceeded, even if they are completly unconnected. However ministers have clearly taken on board the criticisms of this idea. In March Lord Falconer stated that if requests 'are genuinely different then aggregation should not apply'. The ministerial viewpoint is that aggregating requests is purely to stop requesters getting round the cost limit by splitting up one request into several different ones, and that authorities should not be allowed to aggregate unrelated requests. The government is naturally reluctant to present this as a climbdown. But it is clear that Falconer's remarks in March are now the government's official position, and that this is different from the proposal in the government consultation last December. So at the moment we can still expect the goverment to proceed with a part of its plans to restrict FOI. But of course such a decision may well be perceived in a very different way inside ('necessary reduction of an excessive administrative burden') and outside ('outrageous obsession with secrecy') official circles. And it may well be a different group of ministers taking the final decision, chosen by Gordon Brown. Will they worry about being trapped by group-think? Meanwhile I'm going to a freedom of information tomorrow, with hundreds of other people who will happily spend all day discussing FOI, because it's one of the most fascinating and important topics facing the country today. But then everyone thinks that, don't they? Neutral or increasingly secretive? 21 May 07, 10:31 AM As the Maclean Bill has been proceeding through Parliament over the past few months, one notable phenomenon has been the apparent reluctance of many of its MP supporters (with a few honourable exceptions) to appear on TV or radio to explain why they think Parliament should be exempt from freedom of information. The public debate on this issue has been remarkably one-sided. However since Friday's vote the Labour MP Tom Watson has defended his backing for the Bill on , much to the exasperation of . (If you want to read a blogging MP who voted against the Bill, you could try Now that the Bill is going to the Lords, it will be interesting to see if Lord Falconer speaks to it or leaves that to his junior in the Justice Ministry, Baroness Ashton. In January the Guardian that Falconer was then trying to get the government to block the Bill, warning his colleagues that unless it did so it would be perceived as an 'increasingly secretive government'. But the government decided to take an officially 'neutral' stance on the Bill, while generally suspected of encouraging it behind-the-scenes. So assuming Lord Falconer still thinks the same way, will he manage to have more influence with his colleagues in the Lords? 19 May 07, 05:14 PM The MPs who backed the Bill yesterday to exempt Parliament from FOI say they are worried about cases where personal information about their constituents could be disclosed by public authorities due to freedom of information. I've been on the lookout for any examples of this actually happening - ie, cases where public authorities have under FOI put into the public domain correspondence from MPs which contains personal data about constituents, where that personal data should not be disclosed. From the information provided in the debate yesterday in the Commons I have only found it possible to track down one alleged instance of anything like this. Simon Burns, the Tory MP for West Chelmsford, referred to a newspaper using FOI to obtain correspondence between Bob Russell, the LibDem MP for Colchester, and Colchester Council. I think he is probably talking about However this article doesn't tell the people of Billericay anything about the contents of Mr Russell's letters, let alone any personal data about his constituents. It just recounts how many letters he writes, which in his case is quite a lot. Is this really illegitimate FOI-based journalism on the part of the Billericay Weekly News? Well, as it happens, this kind of thing won't actually be stopped by the . The Bill would only prevent public authorities releasing the contents of MPs' letters, not information about the numbers they receive. Next stop - the Lords 18 May 07, 02:17 PM The Bill to exempt MPs from freedom of information has passed the House of Commons, as the tactical manoeuvres of those backing it proved superior to the tricks employed by the smaller number of MPs who are opposed. This is testament to the organising ability of the MPs behind the Bill, as well as the support it has received from the backbench officers of the Parliamentary Labour Party. Of the 96 MPs who backed the Bill in the final vote, there were 78 Labour and 18 Tories (and no LibDems). Now it will go to the Lords, where it will again encounter some fierce opposition, particularly but not exclusively from some Liberal Democrat Peers. It has already this afternoon been subjected to a sideswipe in the Lords from the Tory, Lord (Kenneth) Baker. But doubtless David Maclean, the MP who has successfully guided the Bill so far, has got his ideas about how to get it through the Lords too. The debate in the Commons this morning was mainly noted for the tedious parliamentary time-wasting that was tactically required by the situation. The biggest laugh (unintentionally obtained) went to the justice minister Bridget Prentice when she stated the government was neutral on the Bill. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites This is a blog about freedom of information, written by the BBC's for more information, or to find out how you can join in. Want to publish this banner on your own blog? Three further comments on DCA plans Exposed: Tony thanks Sweden for Sven Is the gateway open? MPs expenses - more to come Neutral or increasingly secretive? Big Brother police costs revealed The costs of police investigations connected to the TV show Big Brother are revealed in documents obtained by the BBC under freedom of information. Iraqi deaths survey 'was robust' A senior official advised ministers that a survey saying 655,000 Iraqis died due to the war was "robust". M1 'could be dangerous in rain' Yorkshire's newest stretch of motorway does not meet up-to-date standards of construction. The above are three recent stories about freedom of information from the BBC News website Freedom of Information stories from the BBC News website World Have Your Say Headlines for your site Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/this_week/default.stm | This Week online and on BBC One (Thursdays 2335-0020) Every Thursday, Michael Portillo, Diane Abbott and Andrew Neil are joined by a surprising combination of guests on the This Week sofa for an informal after-hours political chat. Congratulations for the award and the opportunity to watch my favourite programme anytime (The Apprentice and House excluded!). "We no longer control events in Iraq; events control us." "The problem is that politicians are scared of Murdoch." "I am in favour of the principle of 90 days detention."
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6706499.stm | MP shortlists divide candidates 31 May 2007, 09:21 GMT 10:21 UK shortlists divide candidates The deputy leader will be announced on 24 June Labour's deputy leader contenders are split on the idea of shortlists made up only of people from ethnic minorities. Hazel Blears, Jon Cruddas and Peter Hain told a hustings event in Leicester they backed such lists to boost the numbers of black and Asian MPs. Alan Johnson and Hilary Benn said they were not persuaded. Harriet Harman did not say whether she backed them or not. The hustings was attended by 400 Labour members, mostly from ethnic minorities. Of 646 MPs, 15 are black or Asian. Women-only shortlists have been used in the past by Labour to increase the numbers of women selected as candidates for Parliament, but they have proved controversial and faced legal challenges. Education Secretary Mr Johnson said the lack of ethnic minority MPs was a "scandal", but thought the shortlists would be a form of discrimination. "I'm not totally convinced by BME (black and minority ethnic) shortlists. "But what you can do is that if a community has 25% to 40% of people from ethnic minority backgrounds we ensure that the shortlist for candidates reflects that." We have got to get more candidates from ethnic minorities selected International Development Secretary Mr Benn said he was "yet to be persuaded" that shortlists were the answer while Justice Minister Ms Harman said there needed to be four times as many ethnic minority MPs, but did not confirm whether she backed shortlists or not. But Northern Ireland Secretary Mr Hain, who was an anti-apartheid campaigner, said: "We have got to get more candidates from ethnic minorities selected. "That does, I believe, involve positive action and all-black and ethnic minority shortlists." Party chairwoman Ms Blears said "practical action" was needed and said Labour's ruling NEC could draw up plans to move towards shortlists. And backbencher Mr Cruddas said it was "inevitable" that Labour would move towards shortlists in certain cases. Recently Culture Minister David Lammy called for Gordon Brown, who will succeed Tony Blair as prime minister, to consider imposing ethnic minority shortlists. The Lib Dems, whose only ethnic minority MP lost his seat at the last election, are also considering plans to recruit more members from ethnic minorities. The Conservative Party's controversial "A list" of candidates was designed to ensure more women and ethnic minority MPs were selected as candidates in winnable seats. But it proved controversial with some local associations, who preferred local candidates. And while Labour led the way with all-women shortlists, they too proved controversial. The late Peter Law quit the party in protest and ran as an independent in Blaenau Gwent in 2005 - overturning a 19,000 Labour majority to win. did the six deputy leader hopefuls get on during Newsnight debate? Deputy contenders split over Iraq Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq Hain says Labour 'like reserves' Benn calls for straight politics Brown 'humbled' by MPs' support Blair to Brown: Limbo time? What will Brown do as PM? Q&A: What happens now? Labour leader election timetable From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/bbc_parliament/default.stm | BBC Parliament 25 May 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK John Reid on control orders Booktalk with Richard Toye Today in Parliament Special on Blair From Beaconsfield to Baghdad The latest news from Westminster The Record: Europe-politics in the EU From Beaconsfield to Baghdad The parliamentary life of Tony Blair Daily digest of Westminster politics Radio 4's Today in Parliament and Yesterday in Parliament unpick the day's parliamentary politics. WHAT'S ON BBC Parliament Enter a full postcode Or find by area Yorkshire & the Humber About parliamentary programming on the BBC Writing on the Wall Will Hutton discusses China's peaceful rise with Mark D'Arcy The Welsh Assembly: Debates and law-making from Cardiff
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6705505.stm | Concern over 'lack' of EU debate 31 May 2007, 15:11 GMT 16:11 UK over 'lack' of EU debate Margaret Beckett had declined to appear so close to the summit Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has been criticised for not giving evidence to an influential group of MPs about the government's Europe policy. The foreign affairs committee said her reluctance to attend a session ahead of an EU summit, was "a failure of accountability to Parliament". Europe Minister Geoff Hoon also came in for criticism from the committee. A spokeswoman for Mrs Beckett said she took accountability to Parliament very seriously and always kept it informed. She has said she would appear a few days before the summit which starts on 21 June, but committee chairman Mike Gapes, who said he had been asking for an appearance since February, objected to the timing. "By then senior officials in the Foreign Office and Number 10 will have been involved in months of discussions with their counterparts in other European countries," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "There are controversial issues here - in the past there has been a commitment to a referendum, if we are now moving away from a referendum and we are having parliamentary decisions on these processes, then Parliament itself has to be fully engaged in the discussion and the development of the policy." He wrote to Mrs Beckett on behalf of the committee expressing "deep concern". The summit will consider attempts by Germany to revive the EU constitution, vetoed by the French and Dutch in referendums two years ago. Geoff Hoon has always been very happy and remains happy to appear before the committee to discuss the EU constitutional treaty In the letter Mr Gapes said: "The committee regards the refusal of the [Foreign Office] to provide a minister to give oral evidence during this crucial phase of the discussions on the future of Europe as a failure of accountability to Parliament." He said Mr Hoon had suggested two dates to appear before the committee in May, which were not followed up. "It is the strong view of the committee that an evidence session in June is too late," Mr Gapes wrote. A spokeswoman for Mrs Beckett said she and her ministerial term took their responsibilities to Parliament and the committee "very seriously". "Our position was that any evidence session would be most useful once the German presidency had set out their timetable for discussions leading up to the European Council and once the government had drawn up a set of policy options in response," she said. The government has not only been secretive, they haven't even set out clear goals for Britain in the talks on a new Treaty "Ministers continue to keep Parliament informed both through written questions and through monthly foreign office oral questions." And a source close to Mr Hoon said he was "bending over backwards" to accommodate the committee, and had offered to appear during the weeks beginning 28 May and 4 June, as well as on either 13 June and 18 June. "Geoff Hoon has always been very happy and remains happy to appear before the committee to discuss the EU constitutional treaty." Shadow Europe minister, Mark Francois, for the Conservatives, said he agreed with the committee's criticism. "The government has not only been secretive, they haven't even set out clear goals for Britain in the talks on a new Treaty. "Either they don't want to tell the British people what they want to sign up to or they don't have a clue what they actually want." accused over EU jail law 28 Mar 07 | Politics Europe diary: Spheres of influence 25 May 07 | Europe EU constitution: Where member states stand 25 Mar 07 | Europe Q&A: EU constitution's future 25 Mar 07 | Europe Foreign Affairs Select Committee Foreign and Commonwealth Office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/politics_show/default.stm | Politics Show points to nuclear power The government will unveil its future plans for Britain's energy needs next week - nuclear power will be included in the mix. Some of your comments... TEXT your comments to the Politics Show now... Politics [space] comment and send to 63399... WHAT YOU ARE SAYING Trees: Trees are like dogs- we love them but if a dog attacks or threatens a child it should be put down. A senior police officer tells the BBC he fears the spread of CCTV cameras is leading to "an Orwellian situation". The politics of trees Trees are and this time it's not just about deforestation thousands of miles away... Surveillance: there have been many parental complaints in other schools where fingerprinting has been introduced. Follow the politics of the week with Gary Barker's cartoons... How did you judge Blair's high and low points in office..? Keep ahead of the political scene with my weekly Newsletter THE POLITICS SHOW IN THE UK Never apologise, never inhale Hips... Estate Agent's view Drugs in the city... NORTH EAST AND CUMBRIA Vertical streets of Walker Getting their own back... Playing fields under pressure A right to assisted death The price of life
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/a-z_of_parliament/default.stm | A-Z of Parliament you will find links to our guide to the workings of Parliament. Click on any of them to find out more about your chosen topic. Leading academics dissect the A-level politics syllabus Who writes it, and what is it for? What do they do? And how do they do it? Adjournment of the House Amendment of the law Broadcasting Parliament - key dates Catching the Speaker's Eye Catering - Refreshment Department Chairman of ways and means Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Chancellor of the exchequer Clerk of the House Clerk of the Parliaments Committee of Standards and Privileges Committee of the Whole House Conservative Party Leadership Election Crossing the Floor of the House Death of a Member Debate on the Address Departments of the House Department of the Official Report Father of the House Finance and Administration Department House of Commons Commission House of Commons - Parties House of Lords - Parties Journal of the Commons Labour Party Leadership Election Leader of the House of Commons Leader of the House of Lords Leader of the Opposition Lord President of the Council Orders of the Day Parliamentary Private Secretaries (PPSs) Practice of the House Register of members' interests Sittings of the House State Opening of Parliament Ten Minute Rule Bill You Can't Do That!
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_depth/europe/2003/inside_europe/default.stm Reports | 2003 | Inside Europe 31 May 2007, 08:57 GMT 09:57 UK EU-wide organ donor card proposed The EU considers introducing a donor card to address a shortage of organs for transplant across member states. EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules EU marks Missing Children's Day EU adviser backs job protection EU caps mobile roaming fees EU axes wood and package rules Putin wants EU trade row settled EU-Russian talks end in acrimony Mark Mardell on the US bid to get Europe on side for 'Star Wars' Why many Bulgarians have lost their enthusiasm for the EU How are EU laws made? We look at mobile phone charges THE UK AND EUROPE UK attacked over savings scandal MEPs say that the UK should pay back those who lost savings in the Equitable Life scandal. EU 'does not need constitution' The UK and Dutch prime ministers say the EU needs changes to existing treaties, not a big constitution. EU ministers reach out to Serbia EU foreign ministers offer to resume talks on closer ties with Serbia if it takes steps to catch war crimes suspects. Blair wants end to 'abstract' EU 'No UK referendum' on EU rules Tebbit supports EU exit campaign Minister accused over EU jail law Cameron sets out vision for EU Yes camp hardens position Constitution 'key for EU success' Sarkozy urges EU reform Leaders chart future for Europe What the EU constitution says Del Ponte urges EU Serbia caution EU warns Macedonia over entry Viewpoints: Balkan boost for EU EU hardens tone on enlargement Turkey criticises EU 'injustice' Who spends the most and where does the money go? At-a-glance guide to Europe's Institutions and Agencies Trace a turbulent century through Europe's changing borders 'Hidden' trade barriers alarm EU Compensation warning for airlines EU backs mobile roaming fee cut EU tariffs offer for ex-colonies EU price probe into Apple iTunes EU in court move over Endesa bid EU backing for 'open skies' deal EU free movement of labour map Carbon emissions trading scheme What now for constitution? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS A guide to the EU Commission World Service radio schedules Turks and Croats have begun talks, but what about the others? What do MEPs do? A guide to Europe's elected chamber Key dates and events in the history of the European Union ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://www.bbc.co.uk/nickrobinson Robinson's Newslog to main content 29 May 07, 08:52 AM The problem with political ideas is that once you unleash them you cannot control them. The Tories' Great Grammar School Row was started by a thoughtful speech by the party's education spokesman David Willetts in which he dared to challenge the success of grammar schools in transforming the life chances of poor bright kids. Up until then, David Cameron had always made an essentially political argument. First, he told his party to focus on the education of the many and not the few. Then he pointed out, as he did again in the Mail on Sunday , that "Conservative governments in the past - and Conservative councils in the present - have both failed to carry out [the policy of opening new grammar schools] because, ultimately, it is not what parents want." It is Willetts' idea and not Cameron's politics which backers of grammar schools regard as so dangerous. They fear that the Tories have given anti-grammar school campaigners a new script and may give the Labour Party new courage to campaign against them. Thus the Tory MP Graham Brady dared to engage in the debate - releasing data which, he claimed, prove that grammars improve the life chances even of those who don't go to them. Brady is the MP for the town in which he went to school. He has long been seen as the MP for Altrincham Grammar. Now the Tory leadership is threatening to discipline him and even drop him from the front bench. His crime was to re-open a debate which the Tory leader has declared to be over. You can't, though, discipline an idea. The problem with David Willetts' speech was not the policy it spelt out. Most Tories had grudgingly accepted that. It was the idea contained within it which begged a question which won't go away - if grammar schools are failing, why should Tories oppose their closure and if they're not failing, why not allow more of them to be built? A debate which will go on. Incidentally, David Cameron's article suggests that someone close to him has been reading the exchanges on this blog about the role class plays in the Tories Great Grammar School Row. He declares in it that "I may be a white, forty-something old Etonian, but that doesn't constrain what I do." This may be the last blog for a day or two. Not content with the bank holiday washout I am taking a few days to wallow in the rain whilst my colleague John Pienaar follows the PM to Africa. Poor judgement, you might think. 25 May 07, 11:31 AM Have I got a nervous few hours to go? The hours before a recording of Have I Got News For You are stressful enough. If, that is, you can call mugging up on sharks that breed without having sex the Cornish man who's not slept for a week how Mick Jagger deals with his diminutive private parts The hours after recording and pre-transmission are, if anything, more so. Last night we recorded an hour and a half of television - which is at the lower end of the scale - but only half an hour will make it onto the air (a bit more on the extended Saturday night show and the ). So, which bits will stay and which go? On a previous appearance on HIGNFY I thought I'd been reasonable quick-witted, though never hilarious, throughout the recording. On air, I was merely humiliated for my bad rendition of "I'm just a poor boy... " on Children in Need, made one mediocre gag and then appeared to be mute for the rest of the time. The programme makers are, of course, interested in what makes their audience giggle and not giving their guests their fair share of airtime. This gives someone in my position something of a dilemma. Can you be funny without crossing the line of what a BBC man should and shouldn't say? My guess is that you'll hear me being indiscreetly rude about Home Improvement Packs and about a recent BBC News graphic (I've already apologised to my bosses). I may also be seen to reveal more than you might have wished to know about Mick Jagger. I do hope they don't use the bit when I .... Perhaps it's best, on second thoughts, if that stays on the cutting room floor. So close and yet... 24 May 07, 10:12 AM chastised me for ignoring another "moment of history" in British politics - the Nats coming to power not just in Edinburgh but Cardiff too. Not so fast. Just as a "rainbow coalition" led by Plaid Cymru and including the Tories and the Lib Dems looked on the cards, word emerged that the latter had shied away at the final hurdle. I trust you'll keep me up to date if anything changes. I can't get on a train to Cardiff tonight in any event as I'm due for my annual humiliation on Have I Got News For You. All topical gags gratefully received. No cash prizes I'm afraid. I can only promise the satisfaction of seeing your material used on air. 23 May 07, 05:25 PM All leaders need luck and our future leader's just got lucky. The long wait for him to move next door in Downing Street is protecting him and the government from the worst consequences of an extraordinary series of ministerial cock-ups. Since everyone knows a change is coming the impact of them - both individually and as a whole - has been diminished. Imagine just for a moment if today's no confidence motion in the Health Secretary had come at any other time. The question would have been asked insistently - can Patricia Hewitt survive? I can find no-one who believes she'll still be in charge of the NHS in a few weeks time so today's debate takes on a certain ritualistic quality. Or think about how yesterday's U-turn on Home Improvement Packs might have played? And what about the revelation that the new secretary of state for justice only learnt about the creation of his new department from a newspaper report and was still in dispute with the most senior judges in the land? The much talked of "stable and orderly transition" has sucked all the tension out of the air in the Westminster village. Could that be why ministers are getting as many awkward announcements out of the way as possible before the great transition. Witness this week's politically tricky announcements on nuclear power, planning and road pricing. This is not so much burying bad news as getting all of it out of the way whilst no-one much cares. Has Gordon Brown been lucky or is he proving the truth of that old cliche that you make your own luck? Class war hots up 22 May 07, 11:56 AM At last, we get to the nub of the matter. You may be forgiven for thinking that the Great Grammar School Row is about Tory education policy or how best to help disadvantaged children or, even, how David Cameron runs the Tory party. Not a bit of it. At its heart is the oldest British obsession of them all. No, not the weather. Class. Once again it was John Humphrys (Cardiff High School) who took up the cudgel on this morning's Today programme (listen ). He challenged David Cameron (Eton) on the number of public school boys there were in his shadow cabinet. What, you might ask, has that got to do with anything. The answer is everything. Many of David Cameron's fiercest critics are those who believe that the job of the Tory party is to fight for what Margaret Thatcher called "our people" - by which they mean the aspirational classes. They believe that in the years BT (Before Thatcher) there existed a cross party consensus which punished "our people". The consensus, they believed, was sustained by the political classes who were largely public school boys. In the years AD (After David) they fear a new consensus is emerging which is politically correct, green, liberal and sneers at those who work hard to get their kids the advantages they didn't have. The pre-Thatcher consensus was called But-skellism (after the Tory Rab Butler and Labour's Hugh Gaitskell). We might call the new one Bla-meronism. Do not be surprised that it is inside the Tory Party that this class war is raging. It's been going on for years. Margaret Thatcher was attacked by the toffs for leading a party of "estate agents and second hand car dealers". Michael Heseltine was once described as "a man who has to buy his own furniture". Douglas Hurd was so nervous of his Etonian past that he ran for his party's leadership describing himself as the son of a farm worker which somewhat understated his father's background. Yesterday, I asked the Tory leader at his news conference how he would answer those who said his policy was fine for a "posh, rich kid" like himself but wondered how it would help someone like Michael Howard, his predecessor, the son of poor immigrants, who believes that a grammar school education was the key to escape from poverty. The Tory leader retorted that focussing on his background was old fashioned and irrelevant. However, the key to success as a leader is persuading people that even if you're not one of them you understand how they feel. The Tories who feel wounded by the Great Grammar School Row fear that he hasn't a clue how they feel and never will. 21 May 07, 06:32 PM Gordon Brown and David Cameron are moving to counter suggestions that they allowed or even encouraged MPs to exempt themselves from Freedom of Information legislation. Neither of them voted on Friday. This morning David Cameron used his news conference to say that he was not in favour of the move and had only not voted against it since he had a prior commitment in his constituency. It is far from clear, however, that he tried to stop his colleagues. Meantime Gordon Brown's close ally Ed Balls who voted for the exemption has put up some intriguing comments on his website. "This Bill gives my constituents greater protection and privacy by guaranteeing that the work I do on their behalf remains confidential....As for the proper public scrutiny of MP's expenses and allowances, I am absolutely clear that these should continue to be published as now. The Speaker has said they will continue to be published, that's the right thing to do and, frankly, I would like to see an amendment to that effect included in the Bill to put that beyond doubt" I hear that work is going on to draft and win support for precisely such an amendement. Watch this space Soon to be king 18 May 07, 01:45 PM The king is not quite dead. Long live the man who's soon to be king. It may not slip off the tongue but that is a summary of the curious and unprecedented constitutional position we're in for the next 39 days. It would not, of course, be considered so odd in many other countries. Gordon Brown will benefit from the luxury - not granted to any of his predecessors - of weeks to think and plan whilst not having to campaign for the job. His campaign manager - Jack Straw - says it's a welcome constitutional innovation. His close ally and friend Alastair Darling suggests that he would welcome a return to PM's coming and going within a day. This reflects his frustration that the government's been drifting pretty much ever since last September when Tony Blair publicly announced he'd be gone by the summer. I suspect that the public will only care if there's a crisis in the next six weeks. This won't stop the Tories trying to make them care and to suggest either that there's disarray or that Gordon Brown should be blamed for any unpopular decision taken in this period. Watch for them to make a fuss about hospital closures. At the end of "ever so 'umble" Gordon's first week he can feel satisfied that he has proved wrong those who thought he couldn't hack the top job. He's looked authoritative, comfortable and more at ease at himself than in the past. On the other hand he's neither sparkled nor unveiled a memorable message. The question is can he and will he do it in six weeks time? 17 May 07, 12:58 PM I have a real sense this morning that change is in the air. The cast list of players on the political stage has altered overnight. It is not just that Gordon Brown has been confirmed and will soon speak as "our next prime minister" and will promise to rebuild the public's trust in government. Alex Salmond will, I believe, command headlines way beyond Holyrood as he uses his status as first minister to speak out on a wide range of issues "for the people of Scotland". Another character who will soon feature regularly on our screens is Nicolas Sarkosy - France's flamboyant and aggressive new president. And, as if to make the point, the faces of the soon-to-be-past, Tony Blair and George W. Bush, will feature today at their last joint news conference at the White House. Power is passing from those whose views were forged in the tragedy of 9/11 to the post 9/11 generation. : That is why, I suspect, the Cameroons have tried to get in on "the change" story by picking a fight over grammar schools. It's official. It's Brown 16 May 07, 08:18 PM It's official. Gordon Brown is our next Prime Minister. When nominations were published at 6 pm tonight he was one name short of the number needed to avoid a contest. Tonight he has that name. It is Andrew Mackinlay MP. So much for the idea that Brown wanted a contest. He could have ensured that there was one but insisted that it "would be dishonest" to lend votes to a possible challenger. So, he has seen off putative challenges by Alan Johnson, John Reid, Charles Clarke, David Milliband, Michael Meacher and, finally, John McDonnell. The job he's longed for is his. The contest and the debate which many in the party longed for is not to be. 16 May 07, 12:44 PM After all the decades of protest, all the chilling warnings about the break up of Britain and all the sound and fury - was this it? Today Alex Salmond stormed Scotland's citadels of power and pledged to deliver "compromise and concession". It's hard to imagine that slogan written on the banners of nationalists down the ages. Do not be fooled. This kinder, gentler, softer Salmond is not a different man from the feisty, aggressive political street fighter we've known for years. What's changed is his situation. Salmond now has real power where for years he and his party have had none. However, his power is constrained by the fact that the Scottish Parliament is wholly unlike its Westminster big brother where the "winner takes it all". The SNP now have the job titles, the ministerial cars and the staff but they can pass laws only with the co-operation of their political rivals. Finally, the SNP leader knows he's come to power not thanks to the rise of nationalism but thanks to the decline of Scottish Labour. Today was just a first step on a long journey that might transform the SNP into a party of power, may well lead to the Scottish Parliament gaining new powers and might end in Scottish independence. It might, on the other hand, all end in tears. Its sheer unpredictability is what makes it so interesting. The prize for the speech of the day goes not to Salmond but to the leader of the Scottish Tories, Annabel Goldie. In a short, witty and dignified speech she addressed Alex Salmond's wife and sister who were watching from the public gallery. This formidable Scot declared "If you're not around to keep this man in check, there's another woman who certainly will". 16 May 07, 10:35 AM I have come to witness a moment of history. It is the moment when a party of protest becomes a party of power. The moment when a man who was once expelled by his party and later said "if nominated, I'll decline. If drafted, I'll defer. And if elected, I'll resign" takes them into office. The moment when for the first time in Britain, nationalist politicians get to govern. It will also see the start of an experiment in what some call the "new politics" - post-PR, post-coalition, minority government where every vote rests of a political wing and a prayer. Alex Salmond's elevation to Scottish first minister is genuinely historic. His failure to gain a majority or to form a coalition means that he cannot - in the short term at least - get even close to the SNP's dream of independence. He may not even be able to implement many of his domestic policy promises. However, he will have the title, the trappings of office, the staff, the money and the platform to prove that Scotland can be run in a different way. If he succeeds Britain could be changed for good. What a difference a day makes 11 May 07, 06:41 PM Yesterday we saw the master showman. Today we saw his long suffering understudy. It's lucky that Gordon Brown had decided to highlight his lack of interest in presentation since his launch was marred by the most basic of errors - the cameras couldn't get a clear view of his face. The contrast though was about much more than style and will matter much more if Gordon brown means what he said today. He has pledged to govern in a different way. Parliament would have more power to hold both the government and erring ministers to account. The public would be given greater say over the services they use. In the new kind of politics which Brown is promising, government would be "humble enough to know its place" Mr Brown is trying to pull off quite a trick. He is declaring that an old familiar face can lead a completely new style of government. He is arguing not just that Labour can and should change in office but that he can and will change too. In the days to come we will get a sense of how far that is possible The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites How this weblog works Want to publish this banner on your own blog? Splitting the Home Office Class war hots up So close and yet... Lord Tebbit criticises Cameron Broadcast: 22 May 2007 Brown will be Labour leader Broadcast: 17 May 2007 Brown launches leadership bid Broadcast: 11 May 2007 Blair names departure date Broadcast: 10 May 2007 SNP largest party at Holyrood Broadcast: 04 May 2007 The above links are to five of Nick's recent TV & Radio reports. You will need Windows Media or Real Player to watch/listen ( "Nick Robinson thinks the grammar school row is intended to capitalise on the sense of 'change' in political circles." View from the North "The row over the grammar school non-issue will no doubt damage the Tories in the opinion polls..." "My husband took me to a show - Tony Blair's last huzzah... Everyone got very excited when Nick Robinson appeared." Wife in the North "I am surprised as I wander around the U.S. blogosphere at how relatively lightly Blair gets off... Many Brits are not so kind." Above you can find links to blogs that have linked to Nick recently. You can find more World Have Your Say Headlines for your site Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6705939.stm | Edinburgh and East | MSPs vote to scrap bridge tolls 31 May 2007, 16:12 GMT 17:12 UK vote to scrap bridge tolls The SNP has described the bridge tolls as unfair MSPs have voted to scrap tolls on the Forth and Tay road bridges. But the move came after a last-minute manoeuvre which saved the government from the prospect of its first defeat. The SNP minority administration agreed to accept a cross-party amendment not to "arbitrarily" delay or cancel major transport projects in Edinburgh. First Minister Alex Salmond earlier expressed concerns over the viability of the plans for an airport rail link and trams for the capital. They have already received parliamentary approval, but the new government is currently reviewing whether they represent value for money. Speaking in parliament, Transport Minister Stewart Stevenson said legislation to scrap the tolls would be introduced in September. "It is the government's view that tolls for users of the Forth and Tay road bridges should have been abolished once the tolls were lifted from the Erskine Bridge in May 2006," he told the Scottish Parliament. AND AUDIO NEWS Trams are considered one way to ease the jams Union unease at bridge toll plans 30 May 07 | Scotland Salmond plans to end bridge tolls 23 May 07 | Scotland Party moves to scrap bridge tolls 30 Mar 07 | Scotland Ministers to back Forth crossing 10 Feb 07 | Scotland Bridges debate ends in stalemate 08 Feb 07 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Witness appeal after hit-and-run OAP billed for home's demolition Injured quad bike boy abandoned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Italy inmates seek death penalty Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul crew 'slept in wrong place' do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/the_daily_politics | Daily Politics weekday on BBC2 1200-1230 (Weds 1130-1300) and all the time on this website Prime Minister's Questions Podcast Subscribe once and receive a shiny video digest of PMQs and our analysis - every Wednesday. Get a wallchart of all the PMs Friday Polls - full results YOUR FAVOURITE PRIME MINISTER Watch the video biographies and vote for your favourite WE ASK THE QUESTIONS... ...and you win the sought-after mugs in our political quizzes! Do your own politics Get active online with our Tips For The Technically Terrified Andrew Neil is on tour taking the temperature of the nation Take part, or download the Panel to peruse at home
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:05 GMT 17:05 UK Blair issues Africa action call Tony Blair says there is a "moral obligation" to use political action "to make the world better". Blair role in SA arms contract African media on Blair's legacy Coulson to be Tories' press chief Ex-News of the World editor Andy Coulson is set to be the Conservative Party's head of communications. Increase in anti-terror targets The number of potential targets placed under surveillance by counter-terror police increases by 37%. Tories deny grammars 'disarray' Ellam to be No 10 spokesman MP shortlists divide candidates 'No evidence' of CCTV law breach Concern over 'lack' of EU debate School power to search for knives ALSO IN THE NEWS MP apologises after being caught parking in a disabled bay Enter a full postcode Or find by area Yorkshire & the Humber Poll Watch: May 07 BBC expert on what the past month's opinion polls tell us Mark Mardell on the US bid to get Europe on side for 'Star Wars' What has Tony Blair achieved in four African trouble-spots? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Cardinal's warning to politicians PM speaks of African challenge Blair hails Libyan talks School row causes Tory to quit More Video / Audio News New World Bank chief nominated Tories 'to carry on Blair reform' Tories accuse Brown of 'cronyism' Campus extremism call rejected Government sells nuclear shares Shoplifters to get fine 'let-off' Iraq detainees 'treated humanely' Brown urges drugs rethink Salmond under transport pressure Ministers criticised on care vote Morgan reveals assembly cabinet In depth: The Blair Years Who's who: Shadow cabinet Who's who: Lib Dem front bench BBC Freedom of Info blog Tory quits post over grammars row 'Stop and quiz' comes under fire A look at the variety of reasons British prime ministers left office How did the six Labour deputy leader hopefuls fare in telly debate? Follow the politics of the week with Gary Barker's cartoons... ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/uk_politics/03/shadow_cabinet/html/default.stm news when you want it Click on the images below for shadow cabinet member profiles Leader in the Lords Office of Deputy PM Leader - David Cameron The Old Etonian only entered Parliament in 2001 but his polished performances in the leadership campaign paved the way for victory over David Davis by a margin of more than two-to-one. Before becoming leader he was Tory campaign co-ordinator in the 2005 general election and shadow education secretary. He was special adviser to Home Secretary Michael Howard and Chancellor Norman Lamont in the 1990s. But he also spent seven years in business as a communications director for Carlton. Lib Dem front bench and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6705409.stm | Tories accuse Brown of 'cronyism' news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 19:49 GMT 20:49 UK accuse Brown of 'cronyism' Mr Brown is joining deputy leadership candidates at hustings Gordon Brown has been accused of cronyism after it emerged some of the donors to his leadership campaign had previously been given government posts. Senior Tory Chris Grayling said some of the £110,000 amassed by the campaign came from a "small clique" of donors. He said Mr Brown had pledged a new type of politics, but was "incapable of breaking with the culture of cronyism". Mr Brown's campaign said the Tories had impugned the reputation of respected people, whose support they welcomed. Figures from the Electoral Commission show Mr Brown's campaign has attracted cash donations of £101,700 and offers of services worth £11,070. Among donors were Paul Myners, Lord Leitch and John Miskelly, whom Mr Brown appointed to senior positions on independent reviews and who each gave £9,700, £5,000 and £2,000 respectively. Tory frontbencher Mr Grayling said: "Gordon Brown claims he wants a new type of politics. Many of these donors have been appointed to government posts by Gordon Brown and are now paying the chancellor back "But the funding of his campaign shows that he is incapable of breaking with the culture of cronyism that has dogged the government for years. "The reality is that many of these donors have been appointed to government posts by Gordon Brown and are now paying the chancellor back. "It's quite clear that Gordon Brown intends to carry on leading a 'You scratch my back and I'll scratch yours' government." But a spokesman for Mr Brown's campaign dismissed Mr Grayling's criticisms. It is sadly typical of today's Tories to impugn the integrity of such individuals, simply because they happen not to be Tories Spokesman for Brown campaign He said: "We are pleased to have such widespread support for Gordon's campaign from donors who have distinguished themselves in various fields of business, including some who have also done excellent work for the country in encouraging the development of schools and investment. "It is sadly typical of today's Tories to impugn the integrity of such individuals, simply because they happen not to be Tories." He added that the money would be spent on hiring office space and sending correspondence to party members. Mr Brown is the only leadership candidate, although he is joining deputy leadership candidates at hustings events until he is formally named Labour leader on 24 June. did the six deputy leader hopefuls get on during Newsnight debate? Deputy contenders split over Iraq Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq Hain says Labour 'like reserves' Benn calls for straight politics Brown 'humbled' by MPs' support Blair to Brown: Limbo time? What will Brown do as PM? Q&A: What happens now? Labour leader election timetable From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_depth/uk_politics/2007/blair_years/default.stm Reports | Blair years Blair years 1997-2007 Wednesday, 23 May, 2007, 15:22 GMT 16:22 UK The Tony Blair story The life and times of Tony Blair - from rebellious schoolboy to world statesman. A decade of highs and lows From election landslides to Iraq invasion: how key events mapped to Blair's poll ratings. How will history judge him? Three experts give their views on how history will regard Tony Blair. Born 1953, becomes Labour leader and elected prime minister in THE 10 AGES OF BLAIR Today's the day an experiment in 'new politics' begins... How the UK economy fared over 10 years The ups and downs of life as the prime minister's wife Key moments: Blair's decade at the top Blair years: In his words The legacy of Cherie Blair Iraq overshadows foreign policy The rise and fall of spin Blair's public service record Bush hails 'good friend' Blair Campbell pays tribute to Blair Galloway: Blair will be damned How Blair put the media in a spin The BBC's Andrew Marr on the most media-obsessed government of modern times. BBC home editor Mark Easton assesses the impact on the UK's public services. It was 'education, education, education' in 1997, but what was achieved? Answering 'the Irish question' How a dogged commitment to the peace process eventually bore fruit. BBC diplomatic correspondent James Robbins on the defining foreign policy legacy. Did they blow it? BBC Economics Editor Evan Davis on the dire predictions for UK finances under Labour. '24 hours to save the NHS' Record budget increases, battling against deficits... but did Blair deliver on healthcare? Rock 'n' roll PM The BBC's David Sillito looks at the cultural impact of the Blair years. IN HIS OWN WORDS I give my thanks to you, the British people, for the times I have succeeded, and my apologies to you for the times I have fallen short Resignation speech, 10 May 2007 Who's had the last laugh - the prime minister or the satirists? How life in Britain changed Wars, rigged elections and murder - how prime ministerial departures compare A decade in pictures How terror battle was fought at home and abroad The global view, assessed by BBC correspondents Record as war leader will stay with him Lasting impact on the European Union Bush and Blair - A bond forged in ruins of 9/11 New-look civil liberties and a tricky balancing act Bremner's take on Blair-Brown Where are they now? Clickable guide to Blair's first cabinet Life after No 10 Michael Crick looks at what prime ministers do after losing power Making a new party Was New Labour the greatest achievement of Tony Blair? How comics and actors put their spin on Tony Blair's career ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6707235.stm | 'No evidence' of CCTV data breach news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 13:34 GMT 14:34 UK evidence' of CCTV data breach The Information Commissioner is against covert surveillance The Information Commissioner's Office says it has not seen evidence which suggests that most CCTV systems are breaching its own code of practice. Newly-launched industry body Camerawatch has said its own research showed 90% of CCTV was not complying. Camerawatch said this could have an impact if images from incorrectly used CCTV were presented as legal evidence. But the commission said no audit of CCTV systems had been done: "We don't believe there is any such evidence." The commission does not have audit and inspection powers itself, but has enforcement powers and can investigate complaints of CCTV being used in breach of the Data Protection Act. There are up to 4.2m CCTV cameras in Britain - about one for every 14 people. The code of practice, set to be updated shortly, is to help organisations comply with the act and the commission welcomed Camerawatch's aim of promoting compliance. Camerawatch director Phil Mackie said breaches of the act could have consequences in court. "When evidence is presented in court, it could well be that even before they get to court, if the system is deemed to not have been operating under data protection properly - and there are 70 odd points of law, if it's not been run correctly then the evidence could well be challenged," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. The code of practice covers such areas as signage, permission and storage of images. "If you're operating a CCTV system that captures the public, anything apart from one in your own house, then you must be registered with the Information Commissioner. "And if you're not registered, then it means the system is not compliant with data protection," he said. "You wouldn't leave your personnel files lying about in an office for anybody to see. "That's exactly the same as any tapes or information - you wouldn't leave them lying about, you need to keep them stored in a secure area, and within that secure area, you need to have a kind of login procedure, to make sure that you know who has and who hasn't got access to that equipment." protection worries over CCTV 30 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Warning over 'talking CCTV' plans 01 May 07 | Politics MPs probe 'surveillance society' 22 Mar 07 | Politics The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6704235.stm Ireland | Ministers criticised on care vote news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 11:35 GMT 12:35 UK criticised on care vote The assembly voted to provide free personal care for the elderly Finance minister Peter Robinson has said some members of the executive broke the ministerial code by backing a vote on free care for the elderly. Mr Robinson said the executive had unanimously agreed not to vote for high-spending measures unless all ministers supported them. He said to provide this service would increase regional rates by 25 to 30%. "I remember the hullabaloo there was when the direct rule ministers increased it by 19%," he added. "We need to have some rational thought about how we propose to deal with these issues." On Tuesday, the assembly voted in favour of Health Minister Michael McGimpsey examining providing free personal care for the elderly. A UUP amendment asked the Executive "to consider the costs and method of delivery in the context of the Comprehensive Spending Review and in light of the other budgetary pressures facing the Executive". and contacts to help you act on older people's issues Warning over costs of free care 21 Mar 05 | Scotland Ministers deny care sums 'wrong' 16 Feb 05 | Scotland Free elderly care 'over budget' 15 Feb 05 | Scotland Factcard offers elderly insight 31 Jan 05 | Scotland Scottish Executive: free elderly care The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/uk_politics/05/ld_front_bench/html/default.stm news when you want it Lib Dem front bench Click on the images below for Liberal Democrat front bench member profiles Chief whip in Commons Chief whip in Lords Leader's chief of staff Leader - Sir Menzies Campbell For a former Olympic sprinter, Sir Menzies Campbell had rather a slow journey to the top in politics. He was drawn to the then Liberals by the leadership of Jo Grimmond in the 1960s but it was not until 1987 that he finally entered the Commons after three attempts to win his North East Fife constituency. Sir Menzies was quickly appointed to the front bench, speaking on defence under the leadership of Paddy Ashdown. He was subsequently made Lib Dem foreign affairs spokesman and acting leader following the resignation of Charles Kennedy. In his mid-sixties, he presides over a young Lib Dem team, one of whom was born in 1980. Sir Menzies has promised to be a "safe pair of hands", but also to "take risks" to win support and power for his party. and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/81344.stm | Links to UK political websites news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 10 January 2007, 11:14 GMT to UK political websites Political parties in House of Commons Parties with members in Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly, London Assembly or European Parliament The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites POLITICAL PARTIES IN COMMONS These parties have one or more MPs in the House of Commons: Social Democratic and Labour Party Ulster Democratic Unionist Party Respect - The Unity Coalition Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern PARTIES WITH MEMBERS IN SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT, WELSH ASSEMBLY, LONDON ASSEMBLY OR EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT Green Party of England and Wales Green Party of Scotland POLITICAL PARTIES REGISTERED BY ELECTORAL COMMISSION Adam Lyal's Witchery Tour Party Alliance for Green Socialism Alliance Party of Northern Ireland Church of the Militant Elvis Party Communist Party of Britain Conservative And Unionist Party Dorset Stop The War English Progressive & Liberty Party Highlands & Islands Alliance - Càirdeas Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern Independent Working Class Association Iranian Civil Rights Committee John Marek Independent Party Local Education Action By Parents Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall No Candidate Deserves My Vote! Northern Ireland Women's Coalition Northern Ireland Unionist Party Official Monster Raving Loony Party Organisation of Free Democrats People Against Bureaucracy Action Group Plaid Cymru- Party of Wales Progressive Union Party of Northern Ireland Protect Rural Scotland Party Residents Associations of Epsom and Ewell Respect - The Unity Coalition Revolutionary Communist Party Britain Rock 'n Roll Loony Party Save Our NHS Group Scottish Senior Citizens Unity Party SDLP (Social Democratic & Labour Party) Socialist Party of Great Britain Socialist Party (Northern Ireland) Swindon Org UK Party Thames Ditton / Weston Green Residents' Association UKpopdems - Popular Democrats United Kingdom Independence Party United Kingdom Unionist Party U.K.U.P. Upminster and Cranham Residents Association Vote 2 Stop The War West Ewell and Ruxley Residents' Association Department for Communities and Local Government Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Department for Culture, Media and Sport Department for Education and Skills Foreign and Commonwealth Office Department for International Development Department for Constitutional Affairs Department for Work and Pensions Department of Trade and Industry Hansard - House of Commons Hansard - House of Lords Her Majesty's Stationery Office Central Office of Information Office for National Statistics National Assembly for Wales London Mayor and London Assembly What Downing Street says There are far too many political blogs to list in full, but Alan Connor, from the BBC's Daily Politics programme, has written a guide to them which includes links to many of the best known. Alan Connor's guide to political blogs issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6704145.stm | Government to sell nuclear shares news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 16:16 GMT 17:16 UK to sell nuclear shares British Energy has had problems with its Hinkley power plant recently The government is to sell more of its stake in nuclear energy firm British Energy, to fund the cost of shutting down nuclear power stations. The sale of 400 million shares will cut the government's stake from 64% to 39%. The aim is to make the Nuclear Liabilities Fund, intended to cover nuclear clean-up costs, less reliant on British Energy shares. The news came as the firm announced a 44% rise in underlying annual profits to £1.22bn, buoyed by rising prices. The government first announced its plans to reduce its stake in the UK's biggest energy producer in the 2006 Budget. The latest sale - to financial institutions - is to take place immediately. Despite the rise in profits, British Energy said that problems at two of its power plants had continued to disrupt its electricity production levels. Heysham 1 and 2, Lancashire Hinkley Point B, Somerset Check British Energy shares The firm warned last year that it had discovered cracked pipes in nuclear plants at Hinkley Point in Somerset and Hunterston in Ayrshire. Both sites shut as a result of the problems, and were only given the go-ahead to restart the plants at the start of this month. As a result of the closures, energy output fell to 58.4 terawatt hours (TWh) from 68.4 TWh a year earlier. But during the period, power prices jumped to record levels as a result of the rising cost of natural gas, allowing British Energy to fix sales at higher levels. As a result, fixed contract prices rose to £44.20 per megawatt hour (MWh) compared with £32 in the previous year. British Energy - which generates around one-sixth of the country's energy needs - owns eight nuclear power stations and one coal-fired station in Eggborough, East Yorkshire and employs about 6,000 staff. However, the update and news of the government's stake sale failed to impress investors. Shares in the group closed down 5.6% at 537 pence in London. plant gets nod to restart 11 May 07 | Somerset Safety approved at nuclear plants 03 May 07 | Somerset Nuclear firm seeks new partners 07 Mar 07 | England Reactor crack fears played down 05 Jul 06 | UK Repair delays hit British Energy 20 Dec 06 | Business Power prices lift British Energy 17 Nov 06 | Business The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites US economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6702865.stm | Brown urges drug strategy rethink news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 21:24 GMT 22:24 UK urges drug strategy rethink Mr Brown will say drugs strategy needs to enter a new phase Britain needs a change in strategy in the fight against drugs, Gordon Brown has said, following a meeting with police officers in Birmingham. Mr Brown, who will succeed Tony Blair as prime minister, admitted there was a "big problem" and called for earlier treatment for addicts. He also says education schemes should start at primary schools and more role models are needed to raise awareness. "We have a big problem and we are going to need a new approach," he said. Although Mr Brown is the only candidate for the party leadership, he is taking part in hustings events alongside the six candidates for the deputy post. He has pledged to use the time before he becomes prime minister "listening and learning" to police, hospital staff and others across the country. On Wednesday, he held private meetings with police chiefs and staff in Birmingham, before discussing drugs at the hustings event in the evening. There has been a 16% decline in drug use since 1998, but levels remain unacceptably high, he said. We cannot allow a situation to develop where so many thousands of young people in particular become victims of drug dealers The value of the illegal drugs market in the UK is around £5bn, the government says, while drugs-related crime in England and Wales is thought to cost more than £13bn. Mr Brown said he had been told that 75% of all crimes in Birmingham where money was stolen was drugs-related. "We cannot allow a situation to develop where so many thousands of young people in particular become victims of drug dealers," he said. "And we can't allow a situation to develop where we start to treat them and then we lose them and they become completely remote from the medical services that can help them." He also said he wanted to be able to treat addicts earlier, before they got arrested or imprisoned. He advocated the use of more community role models and ensure better education about the dangers of drugs at primary as well as secondary school. Community leaders have not been consulted enough and drugs education schemes have concentrated too much on secondary schools, according to the chancellor. Mr Brown also said public advertising campaigns - like the Frank campaign - needed to be reviewed and the effectiveness of drug treatment orders, testing orders and community orders. Richard Kramer, policy director at the drugs charity Turning Point, welcomed Mr Brown's "openness" and urged the government to make the health impact of drug use its top priority. He said there was a "new generation" of injecting drugs users and HIV and Hepatitis C among them was rising. He added that a "holistic approach" was needed, where addicts were given housing and employment support as well as drug treatment - to help reduce drug-related crime. In April a report by 12 experts for the independent UK Drug Policy Commission found that the UK had an unusually severe drugs problem and the government's strategy had had a limited impact. policy has 'limited impact' 14-year-olds 'use cannabis daily' Drug laws 'need major overhaul' Drug classification rethink urged Drugs 'blight most parts of UK' Crystal meth increasing problem 'Crack took over my life' Q&A: Giving addicts heroin How drugs are trafficked into UK from source countries Turkey at the drugs crossroads 'I was a drugs mule' Drugs in the UK: Key facts Gauging the UK's drugs use Drugs info & help agencies Do drug laws need an overhaul? Drug laws 'need major overhaul' 08 Mar 07 | UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/6703813.stm | Shoplifters to get fine 'let-off' news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 30 May 2007, 10:29 GMT 11:29 UK to get fine 'let-off' Retailers have criticised the new guidance on shoplifting Shoplifters facing on-the-spot fines could have the penalties written off if they promise to behave. Fines of £80 or £50 will be deferred if the offender agrees to be bound by an Acceptable Behaviour Contract (ABC). The British Retail Consortium (BRC) has criticised the scheme for treating criminals "like naughty schoolboys". Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said it watered down criminal justice but the Home Office said it was a different tool to help police tackle the problem. The penalty will be cancelled if the person behaves during the ABC which can last as little as three months. Shoplifting is a crime, pure and simple, and it should be treated as one Police were handed powers to give a Penalty Notices for Disorder (PND) in 2004 for offences such as stealing goods worth less than £200, being drunk and disorderly and wasting police time. Mr Davis said: "It is bad enough such serious crimes are effectively being punished with a glorified parking ticket. Now we learn the government won't even bother to collect the fine." The BRC said the move undermined the system of dealing with shoplifters even more. BRC director general Kevin Hawkins said: "Shoplifting is a crime, pure and simple, and it should be treated as one." The BRC recently said the introduction of fixed penalties had led to a big increase in shoplifting. A Home Office spokesman said: "Deferred PNDs sit alongside Acceptable Behaviour Contracts. They are both tools for police and local authorities to use to promote a change in an individual's behaviour. "Breaching the terms of an ABC can have serious consequences. The next step may be the issuing of an ASBO for example." The Home Office issued new guidance on the use of PNDs and ABCs following a 12-week consultation. fines 'boost shoplifting' 19 May 07 | UK Shoplifting 'too easy' says study 10 Apr 07 | Leicestershire Shoplifting up '70% since 2000' 11 Oct 06 | UK 'No jail for shoplifters' anger 25 Aug 06 | UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Increase in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/guides/456900/456937/html/nn1page1.stm Depth | The Cabinet news when you want it Week at a Glance Click on the images below for Cabinet member profiles Leader of the Lords Prime Minister - Tony Blair Tony Blair has secured a place in the record books as the only Labour prime minister to have won three successive general elections. He has said he will serve a full third term but that he will not seek re-election a fourth time. Mr Blair is credited, along with Gordon Brown and Peter Mandelson, with rebranding Labour as "New Labour" in a bid to reach beyond the party's traditional working-class support, ditching its historic commitment to public ownership and moving it towards the centre ground of British politics. Mr Blair's politics are, perhaps, shaped by the fact that he is not from a traditional working-class Labour background, having attended the prestigious Fettes public school, in Edinburgh, and Oxford University, where he studied law and played in a student rock band. On his election as an MP in 1983, he quickly rose through the parliamentary ranks. But it was as shadow home secretary in the early 1990s that he really made his name, venturing onto traditional Conservative territory with his pledge to be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". He soon became one of the Labour politicians most widely talked of as the next Labour leader. The opportunity came earlier than expected following the untimely death of John Smith in 1994. It was also at this point that his relationship with his one-time mentor, Gordon Brown, fractured over who would stand back in favour of whom in the leadership contest. But it was the 11 September attacks, and the ensuing "war on terror", that transformed Mr Blair from a politician with a largely domestic agenda into a war leader whose advocacy of the invasion of Iraq split public opinion and divided his own party. Lib Dem front bench and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6701163.stm | Iraq detainees 'treated humanely' news when you want it Also in the news Tuesday, 29 May 2007, 14:46 GMT 15:46 UK detainees 'treated humanely' Lord Goldsmith is the government's chief legal adviser British troops in Iraq are bound by "strong requirements" to treat detainees humanely, the attorney general Lord Goldsmith says. He dismissed a media report claiming he had advised military commanders that the Human Rights Act did not apply when detaining and interrogating prisoners. He called the Independent story "ridiculous" as soldiers were still bound by the Geneva Convention. However, he said he was concerned that some interrogation practices continued. The Independent reported that emails between Lord Goldsmith, the government's legal adviser, and British military headquarters in Iraq suggested he had advised that it was not necessary to follow the "higher standards" of the Human Rights Act when handling prisoners. It also suggested that Lord Goldsmith's views were at odds with those of Lt Col Nicholas Mercer, the Army's most senior legal adviser on the ground, who felt the European Convention on Human Rights did apply. Speaking to BBC Radio 4's World at One programme, Lord Goldsmith said the question of whether the Human Rights Act - which incorporates the ECHR - applied to British soldiers worldwide, was still being tested in the courts. The requirements of the Geneva Convention are that there can be no inhuman or degrading treatment But he added: "They are bound by British criminal law, they are bound by the Geneva Convention, they are bound by Hague regulations. "These are strong requirements which is why, of course, we have seen prosecutions in Camp Bread Basket [and] in relation to the death of Baha Mousa, and other cases." In 2005, after photographs of abuse were uncovered, three British soldiers were jailed for abusing Iraqi civilians at Camp Bread Basket in Basra. In April 2007 Cpl Donald Payne was dismissed from the Army and jailed, after admitting inhumanely treating detainees in Basra in 2003. Six other soldiers were cleared of abusing the detainees - who included hotel worker Baha Mousa, who later died in British custody. The Law Lords are currently considering whether the deaths of six Iraqi civilians, including Mr Mousa, at the hands of the British are subject to UK human rights law. Baha Mousa died in British custody But Lord Goldsmith said it was wrong to suggest that the Human Rights Act required higher standards of treatment, than the Geneva Convention. "In terms of the treatment of detainees ... the requirements of the Geneva Convention are that there can be no inhuman or degrading treatment, that there can't be torture, that people have got to be treated humanely." The court martial heard that senior officers had sanctioned the "conditioning" of detainees, including the use of hooding and stress positions, before interrogation. Lord Goldsmith added: "I was very concerned as to how it came about that certain people thought it was appropriate to use certain treatment - hooding, so-called conditioning - when many of us thought these particular practices had been outlawed in 1972, and I still want to see that looked into." Parliament's Joint Committee on Human Rights has also asked the Ministry of Defence to explain its use of interrogation techniques. soldier jailed over Iraq abuse 30 Apr 07 | UK Law Lords consider Iraqi deaths 17 Apr 07 | UK Iraq abuse case soldiers jailed 25 Feb 05 | UK The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6705939.stm | Edinburgh and East | MSPs vote to scrap bridge tolls news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 16:12 GMT 17:12 UK vote to scrap bridge tolls The SNP has described the bridge tolls as unfair MSPs have voted to scrap tolls on the Forth and Tay road bridges. But the move came after a last-minute manoeuvre which saved the government from the prospect of its first defeat. The SNP minority administration agreed to accept a cross-party amendment not to "arbitrarily" delay or cancel major transport projects in Edinburgh. First Minister Alex Salmond earlier expressed concerns over the viability of the plans for an airport rail link and trams for the capital. They have already received parliamentary approval, but the new government is currently reviewing whether they represent value for money. Speaking in parliament, Transport Minister Stewart Stevenson said legislation to scrap the tolls would be introduced in September. "It is the government's view that tolls for users of the Forth and Tay road bridges should have been abolished once the tolls were lifted from the Erskine Bridge in May 2006," he told the Scottish Parliament. AND AUDIO NEWS Trams are considered one way to ease the jams Union unease at bridge toll plans 30 May 07 | Scotland Salmond plans to end bridge tolls 23 May 07 | Scotland Party moves to scrap bridge tolls 30 Mar 07 | Scotland Ministers to back Forth crossing 10 Feb 07 | Scotland Bridges debate ends in stalemate 08 Feb 07 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Witness appeal after hit-and-run OAP billed for home's demolition Injured quad bike boy abandoned MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://www.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/blogs/opensecrets/ Secrets to main content A blog about freedom of information by Martin Rosenbaum Police FOI in Ireland and Birmingham 31 May 07, 04:28 PM Interesting to note that the will now become subject to freedom of information. And this is a good reminder that the UK FOI system is much more wide-ranging than some of its international counterparts in terms of the extensive list of public bodies that it already covers. Indeed some of the most interesting disclosures in the UK have come from police forces. Here's one reported in today's , about the lack of body armour for police support officers, which actually provides a good example of the use of FOI by an MP (Tom Watson) to get information that he could not obtain from ministers. OGC still fights Gateway case 30 May 07, 11:45 AM Update on yesterday's entry: The Office of Government Commerce is not releasing the Gateway review of the ID cards project, but is appealing the Tribunal's decision to the High Court. The OGC says it regards confidentiality as essential to the Gateway process. Unsurprisingly this decision does not meet with the approval of today's Is the gateway open? 29 May 07, 10:41 AM The Department for Trade and Industry isn't happy at the way freedom of information is going, as the recently reported of the Trade Secretary Alistair Darling make clear. The DTI doesn't like the fact that FOI disclosures have to be decided on a case-by-case basis, because of 'the incremental harm to the policy development process that must inevitably arise from the disclosure of individually innocuous submissions'. There is clearly deep unease within the DTI about decisions from the Information Tribunal that have now started to open up the highly sensitive area of policy discussion within government - a development I have noted Mr Darling's letter refers to the 'discernible trend within the Information Tribunal that decisions on the public interest test have not been falling in the government's favour in key cases'. Perhaps Whitehall will derive some hope from the suggestion that the problem of delay, which has badly affected the rest of the FOI system, may now threaten the Tribunal's operations too. This is according to a useful about caseflow on the IMPACT blog about information law, although the Tribunal is responding by trying to speed up its processes. Currently about a quarter of the Commissioner's decisions are appealed by one side or the other to the Tribunal. In another more recent and also important , the Tribunal has ruled that the Office of Government Commerce should release a of the ID cards project. The OGC has until tomorrow to announce whether it will comply or fight on by appealing to the High Court - and this will be a very interesting decision in what is a significant test case. 25 May 07, 04:38 PM Campaign for Freedom of Information that we should believe the briefing about intention to drop the government's planned restrictions on FOI, whatever the views of the ministers currently involved ... There's a significant Parliamentary in the Mail on Sunday and elsewhere of David Maclean's now ... The presentations from yesterday's . The Information Commissioner Richard Thomas indicated that he would help public bodies dismiss 'vexatious' requests and that he will also be promoting a charter for 'responsible' use of FOI by those seeking information. 23 May 07, 12:04 PM David Maclean has now announced that he would like his Bill on MPs and FOI to be amended so that it requires the Commons to publish every year the figures for MPs' travel, accommodation, incidental expenses, secretarial and other allowances. This would convert the Speaker's pledge to do this into a legal obligation. It will be presented as a compromise and may shore up some of the diminishing support for the Bill. But it would make little difference to its actual practical impact. The Bill would still exempt Parliament generally from freedom of information. So even if the Commons has to carry on publishing the summary information about MPs' allowances that it already does, it means that MPs would not be threatened by further cases where the Information Commissioner might force them to reveal more and more detail about how they spend their allowances. Some MPs back the Bill because they would find more detailed disclosures uncomfortably intrusive. And the Bill would also completely rule out other requests (one example ) to the Parliamentary authorities for information relating to how the Houses of Parliament are run. 23 May 07, 09:46 AM Group-think - have you ever succumbed to it? I know I have. You share experiences and interests with the rest of a group, you reinforce each other's assumptions and beliefs, you embrace the apparent consensus - and then you're taken aback when you discuss it with outsiders who turn out to have a very different perspective on the issue involved. It's not an unknown phenomemon in the BBC. Nor is it in the House of Commons. Last week, when I heard MPs talk about the need to amend the FOI law to put themselves outside it, I was struck by the disparity between how they regarded their own concerns about their position and how their action would be regarded by the general public - and by their apparent ignorance of the size of this disparity. Perhaps not so much group-think as Commons-think or possibly common-think. Anyway the Labour and Tory leaderships have clearly realised, if somewhat belatedly, the damage to the reputation of Parliament caused by the passing of the Maclean Bill, whatever their view of the merits of it. Those words 'compromise' and 'climbdown' are in the air. The Bill will clearly not pass the Lords in its current form, if it passes at all. Clause 1(2) in the Bill exempts all information held by Parliament from the FOI Act. Clause 1(3) exempts MPs' correspondence held by other public authorities. These two proposals are completely separate. If the Bill had only included the latter in the first place, and not the former, then (leaving the other arguments aside) it would have been much better for the public standing of the British political class. But, whatever happens with this Bill, it's also worth reviewing the state of current ministerial thinking on the government's plans to restrict FOI generally . These will have much more impact in curtailing FOI than the Maclean Bill. Currently public bodies can turn down FOI requests if it would take too long to find the information. The government wants to allow them also to take into account the cost of reading it and considering and consulting others on whether to disclose. Ministers are still keen on this plan, even though they are now also consulting the public on whether any change to the FOI rules is necessary at all. They argue that these costs exist and so in principle should be reflected. They understand the counter-arguments - that in practice their plan will prevent valuable disclosures, while being open to abuse, providing perverse incentives to inefficiency, and prompting an increase in appeals which would reduce the cost savings. They look to the Information Commissioner to deal with such problems. The other government proposal last December was to allow public bodies to 'aggregate' all the requests received from one organisation within three months in working out whether the cost limit is exceeded, even if they are completly unconnected. However ministers have clearly taken on board the criticisms of this idea. In March Lord Falconer stated that if requests 'are genuinely different then aggregation should not apply'. The ministerial viewpoint is that aggregating requests is purely to stop requesters getting round the cost limit by splitting up one request into several different ones, and that authorities should not be allowed to aggregate unrelated requests. The government is naturally reluctant to present this as a climbdown. But it is clear that Falconer's remarks in March are now the government's official position, and that this is different from the proposal in the government consultation last December. So at the moment we can still expect the goverment to proceed with a part of its plans to restrict FOI. But of course such a decision may well be perceived in a very different way inside ('necessary reduction of an excessive administrative burden') and outside ('outrageous obsession with secrecy') official circles. And it may well be a different group of ministers taking the final decision, chosen by Gordon Brown. Will they worry about being trapped by group-think? Meanwhile I'm going to a freedom of information tomorrow, with hundreds of other people who will happily spend all day discussing FOI, because it's one of the most fascinating and important topics facing the country today. But then everyone thinks that, don't they? Neutral or increasingly secretive? 21 May 07, 10:31 AM As the Maclean Bill has been proceeding through Parliament over the past few months, one notable phenomenon has been the apparent reluctance of many of its MP supporters (with a few honourable exceptions) to appear on TV or radio to explain why they think Parliament should be exempt from freedom of information. The public debate on this issue has been remarkably one-sided. However since Friday's vote the Labour MP Tom Watson has defended his backing for the Bill on , much to the exasperation of . (If you want to read a blogging MP who voted against the Bill, you could try Now that the Bill is going to the Lords, it will be interesting to see if Lord Falconer speaks to it or leaves that to his junior in the Justice Ministry, Baroness Ashton. In January the Guardian that Falconer was then trying to get the government to block the Bill, warning his colleagues that unless it did so it would be perceived as an 'increasingly secretive government'. But the government decided to take an officially 'neutral' stance on the Bill, while generally suspected of encouraging it behind-the-scenes. So assuming Lord Falconer still thinks the same way, will he manage to have more influence with his colleagues in the Lords? 19 May 07, 05:14 PM The MPs who backed the Bill yesterday to exempt Parliament from FOI say they are worried about cases where personal information about their constituents could be disclosed by public authorities due to freedom of information. I've been on the lookout for any examples of this actually happening - ie, cases where public authorities have under FOI put into the public domain correspondence from MPs which contains personal data about constituents, where that personal data should not be disclosed. From the information provided in the debate yesterday in the Commons I have only found it possible to track down one alleged instance of anything like this. Simon Burns, the Tory MP for West Chelmsford, referred to a newspaper using FOI to obtain correspondence between Bob Russell, the LibDem MP for Colchester, and Colchester Council. I think he is probably talking about However this article doesn't tell the people of Billericay anything about the contents of Mr Russell's letters, let alone any personal data about his constituents. It just recounts how many letters he writes, which in his case is quite a lot. Is this really illegitimate FOI-based journalism on the part of the Billericay Weekly News? Well, as it happens, this kind of thing won't actually be stopped by the . The Bill would only prevent public authorities releasing the contents of MPs' letters, not information about the numbers they receive. Next stop - the Lords 18 May 07, 02:17 PM The Bill to exempt MPs from freedom of information has passed the House of Commons, as the tactical manoeuvres of those backing it proved superior to the tricks employed by the smaller number of MPs who are opposed. This is testament to the organising ability of the MPs behind the Bill, as well as the support it has received from the backbench officers of the Parliamentary Labour Party. Of the 96 MPs who backed the Bill in the final vote, there were 78 Labour and 18 Tories (and no LibDems). Now it will go to the Lords, where it will again encounter some fierce opposition, particularly but not exclusively from some Liberal Democrat Peers. It has already this afternoon been subjected to a sideswipe in the Lords from the Tory, Lord (Kenneth) Baker. But doubtless David Maclean, the MP who has successfully guided the Bill so far, has got his ideas about how to get it through the Lords too. The debate in the Commons this morning was mainly noted for the tedious parliamentary time-wasting that was tactically required by the situation. The biggest laugh (unintentionally obtained) went to the justice minister Bridget Prentice when she stated the government was neutral on the Bill. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites This is a blog about freedom of information, written by the BBC's for more information, or to find out how you can join in. Want to publish this banner on your own blog? Is the gateway open? MPs expenses - more to come Neutral or increasingly secretive? Next stop - the Lords Big Brother police costs revealed The costs of police investigations connected to the TV show Big Brother are revealed in documents obtained by the BBC under freedom of information. Iraqi deaths survey 'was robust' A senior official advised ministers that a survey saying 655,000 Iraqis died due to the war was "robust". M1 'could be dangerous in rain' Yorkshire's newest stretch of motorway does not meet up-to-date standards of construction. The above are three recent stories about freedom of information from the BBC News website Freedom of Information stories from the BBC News website World Have Your Say Headlines for your site Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/this_week/default.stm | This Week online and on BBC One (Thursdays 2335-0020) Every Thursday, Michael Portillo, Diane Abbott and Andrew Neil are joined by a surprising combination of guests on the This Week sofa for an informal after-hours political chat. Thank you for the opportunity to watch at any time of the week my favourite programme. "We no longer control events in Iraq; events control us." "The problem is that politicians are scared of Murdoch." "I am in favour of the principle of 90 days detention."
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6706499.stm | MP shortlists divide candidates news when you want it Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 09:21 GMT 10:21 UK shortlists divide candidates The deputy leader will be announced on 24 June Labour's deputy leader contenders are split on the idea of shortlists made up only of people from ethnic minorities. Hazel Blears, Jon Cruddas and Peter Hain told a hustings event in Leicester they backed such lists to boost the numbers of black and Asian MPs. Alan Johnson and Hilary Benn said they were not persuaded. Harriet Harman did not say whether she backed them or not. The hustings was attended by 400 Labour members, mostly from ethnic minorities. Of 646 MPs, 15 are black or Asian. Women-only shortlists have been used in the past by Labour to increase the numbers of women selected as candidates for Parliament, but they have proved controversial and faced legal challenges. Education Secretary Mr Johnson said the lack of ethnic minority MPs was a "scandal", but thought the shortlists would be a form of discrimination. "I'm not totally convinced by BME (black and minority ethnic) shortlists. "But what you can do is that if a community has 25% to 40% of people from ethnic minority backgrounds we ensure that the shortlist for candidates reflects that." We have got to get more candidates from ethnic minorities selected International Development Secretary Mr Benn said he was "yet to be persuaded" that shortlists were the answer while Justice Minister Ms Harman said there needed to be four times as many ethnic minority MPs, but did not confirm whether she backed shortlists or not. But Northern Ireland Secretary Mr Hain, who was an anti-apartheid campaigner, said: "We have got to get more candidates from ethnic minorities selected. "That does, I believe, involve positive action and all-black and ethnic minority shortlists." Party chairwoman Ms Blears said "practical action" was needed and said Labour's ruling NEC could draw up plans to move towards shortlists. And backbencher Mr Cruddas said it was "inevitable" that Labour would move towards shortlists in certain cases. Recently Culture Minister David Lammy called for Gordon Brown, who will succeed Tony Blair as prime minister, to consider imposing ethnic minority shortlists. The Lib Dems, whose only ethnic minority MP lost his seat at the last election, are also considering plans to recruit more members from ethnic minorities. The Conservative Party's controversial "A list" of candidates was designed to ensure more women and ethnic minority MPs were selected as candidates in winnable seats. But it proved controversial with some local associations, who preferred local candidates. And while Labour led the way with all-women shortlists, they too proved controversial. The late Peter Law quit the party in protest and ran as an independent in Blaenau Gwent in 2005 - overturning a 19,000 Labour majority to win. did the six deputy leader hopefuls get on during Newsnight debate? Deputy contenders split over Iraq Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq Hain says Labour 'like reserves' Benn calls for straight politics Brown 'humbled' by MPs' support Blair to Brown: Limbo time? What will Brown do as PM? Q&A: What happens now? Labour leader election timetable From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Harry Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/bbc_parliament/default.stm | BBC Parliament news when you want it Also in the news Friday, 25 May 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK John Reid on control orders Booktalk with Richard Toye Today in Parliament Special on Blair From Beaconsfield to Baghdad The latest news from Westminster The Record: Europe-politics in the EU Lord Ashdown on interventionism The former LibDem leader's LSE lecture Daily digest of Westminster politics Radio 4's Today in Parliament and Yesterday in Parliament unpick the day's parliamentary politics. WHAT'S ON BBC Parliament Enter a full postcode Or find by area Yorkshire & the Humber FAQs: Troubleshooting and general questions Writing on the Wall Will Hutton discusses China's peaceful rise with Mark D'Arcy European politics under scrutiny
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/politics_show/default.stm | Politics Show points to nuclear power The government will unveil its future plans for Britain's energy needs next week - nuclear power will be included in the mix. Some of your comments... TEXT your comments to the Politics Show now... Politics [space] comment and send to 63399... WHAT YOU ARE SAYING Trees: Trees are like dogs- we love them but if a dog attacks or threatens a child it should be put down. A senior police officer tells the BBC he fears the spread of CCTV cameras is leading to "an Orwellian situation". The politics of trees Trees are in the news again, and this time it's not just about deforestation thousands of miles away... Surveillance: there have been many parental complaints in other schools where fingerprinting has been introduced. Follow the politics of the week with Gary Barker's cartoons... How did you judge Blair's high and low points in office..? Keep ahead of the political scene with my weekly Newsletter THE POLITICS SHOW IN THE UK Never apologise, never inhale Hips... Estate Agent's view Drugs in the city... NORTH EAST AND CUMBRIA Vertical streets of Walker Getting their own back... Playing fields under pressure A right to assisted death The price of life
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/a-z_of_parliament/default.stm | A-Z of Parliament news when you want it Below you will find links to our guide to the workings of Parliament. Click on any of them to find out more about your chosen topic. Get inside Parliament with a 360 degree virtual tour Who writes it, and what is it for? What do they do? And how do they do it? Adjournment of the House Amendment of the law Broadcasting Parliament - key dates Catching the Speaker's Eye Catering - Refreshment Department Chairman of ways and means Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Chancellor of the exchequer Clerk of the House Clerk of the Parliaments Committee of Standards and Privileges Committee of the Whole House Conservative Party Leadership Election Crossing the Floor of the House Death of a Member Debate on the Address Departments of the House Department of the Official Report Father of the House Finance and Administration Department House of Commons Commission House of Commons - Parties House of Lords - Parties Journal of the Commons Labour Party Leadership Election Leader of the House of Commons Leader of the House of Lords Leader of the Opposition Lord President of the Council Orders of the Day Parliamentary Private Secretaries (PPSs) Practice of the House Register of members' interests Sittings of the House State Opening of Parliament Ten Minute Rule Bill You Can't Do That! and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_depth/europe/2003/inside_europe/default.stm Reports | 2003 | Inside Europe in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 08:57 GMT 09:57 UK EU-wide organ donor card proposed The EU considers introducing a donor card to address a shortage of organs for transplant across member states. EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules EU marks Missing Children's Day EU adviser backs job protection EU caps mobile roaming fees EU axes wood and package rules Putin wants EU trade row settled EU-Russian talks end in acrimony Mark Mardell on the US bid to get Europe on side for 'Star Wars' Why many Bulgarians have lost their enthusiasm for the EU How are EU laws made? We look at mobile phone charges THE UK AND EUROPE UK attacked over savings scandal MEPs say that the UK should pay back those who lost savings in the Equitable Life scandal. EU 'does not need constitution' The UK and Dutch prime ministers say the EU needs changes to existing treaties, not a big constitution. EU ministers reach out to Serbia EU foreign ministers offer to resume talks on closer ties with Serbia if it takes steps to catch war crimes suspects. Blair wants end to 'abstract' EU 'No UK referendum' on EU rules Tebbit supports EU exit campaign Minister accused over EU jail law Cameron sets out vision for EU Yes camp hardens position Constitution 'key for EU success' Sarkozy urges EU reform Leaders chart future for Europe What the EU constitution says Del Ponte urges EU Serbia caution EU warns Macedonia over entry Viewpoints: Balkan boost for EU EU hardens tone on enlargement Turkey criticises EU 'injustice' Who spends the most and where does the money go? At-a-glance guide to Europe's Institutions and Agencies Trace a turbulent century through Europe's changing borders 'Hidden' trade barriers alarm EU Compensation warning for airlines EU backs mobile roaming fee cut EU tariffs offer for ex-colonies EU price probe into Apple iTunes EU in court move over Endesa bid EU backing for 'open skies' deal EU free movement of labour map Carbon emissions trading scheme What now for constitution? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS World Service radio schedules Turks and Croats have begun talks, but what about the others? What do MEPs do? A guide to Europe's elected chamber Key dates and events in the history of the European Union ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC and
http://www.bbc.co.uk/nickrobinson Robinson's Newslog to main content 29 May 07, 08:52 AM The problem with political ideas is that once you unleash them you cannot control them. The Tories' Great Grammar School Row was started by a thoughtful speech by the party's education spokesman David Willetts in which he dared to challenge the success of grammar schools in transforming the life chances of poor bright kids. Up until then, David Cameron had always made an essentially political argument. First, he told his party to focus on the education of the many and not the few. Then he pointed out, as he did again in the Mail on Sunday , that "Conservative governments in the past - and Conservative councils in the present - have both failed to carry out [the policy of opening new grammar schools] because, ultimately, it is not what parents want." It is Willetts' idea and not Cameron's politics which backers of grammar schools regard as so dangerous. They fear that the Tories have given anti-grammar school campaigners a new script and may give the Labour Party new courage to campaign against them. Thus the Tory MP Graham Brady dared to engage in the debate - releasing data which, he claimed, prove that grammars improve the life chances even of those who don't go to them. Brady is the MP for the town in which he went to school. He has long been seen as the MP for Altrincham Grammar. Now the Tory leadership is threatening to discipline him and even drop him from the front bench. His crime was to re-open a debate which the Tory leader has declared to be over. You can't, though, discipline an idea. The problem with David Willetts' speech was not the policy it spelt out. Most Tories had grudgingly accepted that. It was the idea contained within it which begged a question which won't go away - if grammar schools are failing, why should Tories oppose their closure and if they're not failing, why not allow more of them to be built? A debate which will go on. Incidentally, David Cameron's article suggests that someone close to him has been reading the exchanges on this blog about the role class plays in the Tories Great Grammar School Row. He declares in it that "I may be a white, forty-something old Etonian, but that doesn't constrain what I do." This may be the last blog for a day or two. Not content with the bank holiday washout I am taking a few days to wallow in the rain whilst my colleague John Pienaar follows the PM to Africa. Poor judgement, you might think. 25 May 07, 11:31 AM Have I got a nervous few hours to go? The hours before a recording of Have I Got News For You are stressful enough. If, that is, you can call mugging up on sharks that breed without having sex the Cornish man who's not slept for a week how Mick Jagger deals with his diminutive private parts The hours after recording and pre-transmission are, if anything, more so. Last night we recorded an hour and a half of television - which is at the lower end of the scale - but only half an hour will make it onto the air (a bit more on the extended Saturday night show and the ). So, which bits will stay and which go? On a previous appearance on HIGNFY I thought I'd been reasonable quick-witted, though never hilarious, throughout the recording. On air, I was merely humiliated for my bad rendition of "I'm just a poor boy... " on Children in Need, made one mediocre gag and then appeared to be mute for the rest of the time. The programme makers are, of course, interested in what makes their audience giggle and not giving their guests their fair share of airtime. This gives someone in my position something of a dilemma. Can you be funny without crossing the line of what a BBC man should and shouldn't say? My guess is that you'll hear me being indiscreetly rude about Home Improvement Packs and about a recent BBC News graphic (I've already apologised to my bosses). I may also be seen to reveal more than you might have wished to know about Mick Jagger. I do hope they don't use the bit when I .... Perhaps it's best, on second thoughts, if that stays on the cutting room floor. So close and yet... 24 May 07, 10:12 AM chastised me for ignoring another "moment of history" in British politics - the Nats coming to power not just in Edinburgh but Cardiff too. Not so fast. Just as a "rainbow coalition" led by Plaid Cymru and including the Tories and the Lib Dems looked on the cards, word emerged that the latter had shied away at the final hurdle. I trust you'll keep me up to date if anything changes. I can't get on a train to Cardiff tonight in any event as I'm due for my annual humiliation on Have I Got News For You. All topical gags gratefully received. No cash prizes I'm afraid. I can only promise the satisfaction of seeing your material used on air. 23 May 07, 05:25 PM All leaders need luck and our future leader's just got lucky. The long wait for him to move next door in Downing Street is protecting him and the government from the worst consequences of an extraordinary series of ministerial cock-ups. Since everyone knows a change is coming the impact of them - both individually and as a whole - has been diminished. Imagine just for a moment if today's no confidence motion in the Health Secretary had come at any other time. The question would have been asked insistently - can Patricia Hewitt survive? I can find no-one who believes she'll still be in charge of the NHS in a few weeks time so today's debate takes on a certain ritualistic quality. Or think about how yesterday's U-turn on Home Improvement Packs might have played? And what about the revelation that the new secretary of state for justice only learnt about the creation of his new department from a newspaper report and was still in dispute with the most senior judges in the land? The much talked of "stable and orderly transition" has sucked all the tension out of the air in the Westminster village. Could that be why ministers are getting as many awkward announcements out of the way as possible before the great transition. Witness this week's politically tricky announcements on nuclear power, planning and road pricing. This is not so much burying bad news as getting all of it out of the way whilst no-one much cares. Has Gordon Brown been lucky or is he proving the truth of that old cliche that you make your own luck? Class war hots up 22 May 07, 11:56 AM At last, we get to the nub of the matter. You may be forgiven for thinking that the Great Grammar School Row is about Tory education policy or how best to help disadvantaged children or, even, how David Cameron runs the Tory party. Not a bit of it. At its heart is the oldest British obsession of them all. No, not the weather. Class. Once again it was John Humphrys (Cardiff High School) who took up the cudgel on this morning's Today programme (listen ). He challenged David Cameron (Eton) on the number of public school boys there were in his shadow cabinet. What, you might ask, has that got to do with anything. The answer is everything. Many of David Cameron's fiercest critics are those who believe that the job of the Tory party is to fight for what Margaret Thatcher called "our people" - by which they mean the aspirational classes. They believe that in the years BT (Before Thatcher) there existed a cross party consensus which punished "our people". The consensus, they believed, was sustained by the political classes who were largely public school boys. In the years AD (After David) they fear a new consensus is emerging which is politically correct, green, liberal and sneers at those who work hard to get their kids the advantages they didn't have. The pre-Thatcher consensus was called But-skellism (after the Tory Rab Butler and Labour's Hugh Gaitskell). We might call the new one Bla-meronism. Do not be surprised that it is inside the Tory Party that this class war is raging. It's been going on for years. Margaret Thatcher was attacked by the toffs for leading a party of "estate agents and second hand car dealers". Michael Heseltine was once described as "a man who has to buy his own furniture". Douglas Hurd was so nervous of his Etonian past that he ran for his party's leadership describing himself as the son of a farm worker which somewhat understated his father's background. Yesterday, I asked the Tory leader at his news conference how he would answer those who said his policy was fine for a "posh, rich kid" like himself but wondered how it would help someone like Michael Howard, his predecessor, the son of poor immigrants, who believes that a grammar school education was the key to escape from poverty. The Tory leader retorted that focussing on his background was old fashioned and irrelevant. However, the key to success as a leader is persuading people that even if you're not one of them you understand how they feel. The Tories who feel wounded by the Great Grammar School Row fear that he hasn't a clue how they feel and never will. 21 May 07, 06:32 PM Gordon Brown and David Cameron are moving to counter suggestions that they allowed or even encouraged MPs to exempt themselves from Freedom of Information legislation. Neither of them voted on Friday. This morning David Cameron used his news conference to say that he was not in favour of the move and had only not voted against it since he had a prior commitment in his constituency. It is far from clear, however, that he tried to stop his colleagues. Meantime Gordon Brown's close ally Ed Balls who voted for the exemption has put up some intriguing comments on his website. "This Bill gives my constituents greater protection and privacy by guaranteeing that the work I do on their behalf remains confidential....As for the proper public scrutiny of MP's expenses and allowances, I am absolutely clear that these should continue to be published as now. The Speaker has said they will continue to be published, that's the right thing to do and, frankly, I would like to see an amendment to that effect included in the Bill to put that beyond doubt" I hear that work is going on to draft and win support for precisely such an amendement. Watch this space Soon to be king 18 May 07, 01:45 PM The king is not quite dead. Long live the man who's soon to be king. It may not slip off the tongue but that is a summary of the curious and unprecedented constitutional position we're in for the next 39 days. It would not, of course, be considered so odd in many other countries. Gordon Brown will benefit from the luxury - not granted to any of his predecessors - of weeks to think and plan whilst not having to campaign for the job. His campaign manager - Jack Straw - says it's a welcome constitutional innovation. His close ally and friend Alastair Darling suggests that he would welcome a return to PM's coming and going within a day. This reflects his frustration that the government's been drifting pretty much ever since last September when Tony Blair publicly announced he'd be gone by the summer. I suspect that the public will only care if there's a crisis in the next six weeks. This won't stop the Tories trying to make them care and to suggest either that there's disarray or that Gordon Brown should be blamed for any unpopular decision taken in this period. Watch for them to make a fuss about hospital closures. At the end of "ever so 'umble" Gordon's first week he can feel satisfied that he has proved wrong those who thought he couldn't hack the top job. He's looked authoritative, comfortable and more at ease at himself than in the past. On the other hand he's neither sparkled nor unveiled a memorable message. The question is can he and will he do it in six weeks time? 17 May 07, 12:58 PM I have a real sense this morning that change is in the air. The cast list of players on the political stage has altered overnight. It is not just that Gordon Brown has been confirmed and will soon speak as "our next prime minister" and will promise to rebuild the public's trust in government. Alex Salmond will, I believe, command headlines way beyond Holyrood as he uses his status as first minister to speak out on a wide range of issues "for the people of Scotland". Another character who will soon feature regularly on our screens is Nicolas Sarkosy - France's flamboyant and aggressive new president. And, as if to make the point, the faces of the soon-to-be-past, Tony Blair and George W. Bush, will feature today at their last joint news conference at the White House. Power is passing from those whose views were forged in the tragedy of 9/11 to the post 9/11 generation. : That is why, I suspect, the Cameroons have tried to get in on "the change" story by picking a fight over grammar schools. It's official. It's Brown 16 May 07, 08:18 PM It's official. Gordon Brown is our next Prime Minister. When nominations were published at 6 pm tonight he was one name short of the number needed to avoid a contest. Tonight he has that name. It is Andrew Mackinlay MP. So much for the idea that Brown wanted a contest. He could have ensured that there was one but insisted that it "would be dishonest" to lend votes to a possible challenger. So, he has seen off putative challenges by Alan Johnson, John Reid, Charles Clarke, David Milliband, Michael Meacher and, finally, John McDonnell. The job he's longed for is his. The contest and the debate which many in the party longed for is not to be. 16 May 07, 12:44 PM After all the decades of protest, all the chilling warnings about the break up of Britain and all the sound and fury - was this it? Today Alex Salmond stormed Scotland's citadels of power and pledged to deliver "compromise and concession". It's hard to imagine that slogan written on the banners of nationalists down the ages. Do not be fooled. This kinder, gentler, softer Salmond is not a different man from the feisty, aggressive political street fighter we've known for years. What's changed is his situation. Salmond now has real power where for years he and his party have had none. However, his power is constrained by the fact that the Scottish Parliament is wholly unlike its Westminster big brother where the "winner takes it all". The SNP now have the job titles, the ministerial cars and the staff but they can pass laws only with the co-operation of their political rivals. Finally, the SNP leader knows he's come to power not thanks to the rise of nationalism but thanks to the decline of Scottish Labour. Today was just a first step on a long journey that might transform the SNP into a party of power, may well lead to the Scottish Parliament gaining new powers and might end in Scottish independence. It might, on the other hand, all end in tears. Its sheer unpredictability is what makes it so interesting. The prize for the speech of the day goes not to Salmond but to the leader of the Scottish Tories, Annabel Goldie. In a short, witty and dignified speech she addressed Alex Salmond's wife and sister who were watching from the public gallery. This formidable Scot declared "If you're not around to keep this man in check, there's another woman who certainly will". 16 May 07, 10:35 AM I have come to witness a moment of history. It is the moment when a party of protest becomes a party of power. The moment when a man who was once expelled by his party and later said "if nominated, I'll decline. If drafted, I'll defer. And if elected, I'll resign" takes them into office. The moment when for the first time in Britain, nationalist politicians get to govern. It will also see the start of an experiment in what some call the "new politics" - post-PR, post-coalition, minority government where every vote rests of a political wing and a prayer. Alex Salmond's elevation to Scottish first minister is genuinely historic. His failure to gain a majority or to form a coalition means that he cannot - in the short term at least - get even close to the SNP's dream of independence. He may not even be able to implement many of his domestic policy promises. However, he will have the title, the trappings of office, the staff, the money and the platform to prove that Scotland can be run in a different way. If he succeeds Britain could be changed for good. What a difference a day makes 11 May 07, 06:41 PM Yesterday we saw the master showman. Today we saw his long suffering understudy. It's lucky that Gordon Brown had decided to highlight his lack of interest in presentation since his launch was marred by the most basic of errors - the cameras couldn't get a clear view of his face. The contrast though was about much more than style and will matter much more if Gordon brown means what he said today. He has pledged to govern in a different way. Parliament would have more power to hold both the government and erring ministers to account. The public would be given greater say over the services they use. In the new kind of politics which Brown is promising, government would be "humble enough to know its place" Mr Brown is trying to pull off quite a trick. He is declaring that an old familiar face can lead a completely new style of government. He is arguing not just that Labour can and should change in office but that he can and will change too. In the days to come we will get a sense of how far that is possible The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites How this weblog works Want to publish this banner on your own blog? Splitting the Home Office Class war hots up So close and yet... Lord Tebbit criticises Cameron Broadcast: 22 May 2007 Brown will be Labour leader Broadcast: 17 May 2007 Brown launches leadership bid Broadcast: 11 May 2007 Blair names departure date Broadcast: 10 May 2007 SNP largest party at Holyrood Broadcast: 04 May 2007 The above links are to five of Nick's recent TV & Radio reports. You will need Windows Media or Real Player to watch/listen ( "Nick Robinson thinks the grammar school row is intended to capitalise on the sense of 'change' in political circles." View from the North "The row over the grammar school non-issue will no doubt damage the Tories in the opinion polls..." "My husband took me to a show - Tony Blair's last huzzah... Everyone got very excited when Nick Robinson appeared." Wife in the North "I am surprised as I wander around the U.S. blogosphere at how relatively lightly Blair gets off... Many Brits are not so kind." Above you can find links to blogs that have linked to Nick recently. You can find more World Have Your Say Headlines for your site Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/the_daily_politics | Daily Politics weekday on BBC2 1200-1230 (Weds 1130-1300) and all the time on this website Prime Minister's Questions Podcast Subscribe once and receive a shiny video digest of PMQs and our analysis - every Wednesday. Get a wallchart of all the PMs Friday Polls - full results YOUR FAVOURITE PRIME MINISTER Watch the video biographies and vote for your favourite WE ASK THE QUESTIONS... ...and you win the sought-after mugs in our political quizzes! Do your own politics Get active online with our Tips For The Technically Terrified Andrew Neil is on tour taking the temperature of the nation Take part, or download the Panel to peruse at home
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/default.stm 4's PM programme Also in the news Thursday, 31 May 2007, 16:51 GMT 17:51 UK Blair issues Africa action call Tony Blair says there is a "moral obligation" to use political action "to make the world better". Blair role in SA arms contract African media on Blair's legacy Coulson to be Tories' press chief Ex-News of the World editor Andy Coulson is set to be the Conservative Party's head of communications. Increase in anti-terror targets The number of potential targets placed under surveillance by counter-terror police increases by 37%. Tories deny grammars 'disarray' Ellam to be No 10 spokesman MP shortlists divide candidates 'No evidence' of CCTV law breach Concern over 'lack' of EU debate School power to search for knives ALSO IN THE NEWS MP apologises after being caught parking in a disabled bay Enter a full postcode Or find by area Yorkshire & the Humber The challenge facing ex-News of the World editor with the Tories Mark Mardell on the US bid to get Europe on side for 'Star Wars' Forty years on at the LSE do they still care? If so, about what? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Cardinal's warning to politicians PM speaks of African challenge Blair hails Libyan talks School row causes Tory to quit More Video / Audio News New World Bank chief nominated Tories 'to carry on Blair reform' Tories accuse Brown of 'cronyism' Campus extremism call rejected Government sells nuclear shares Shoplifters to get fine 'let-off' Iraq detainees 'treated humanely' Brown urges drugs rethink MSPs vote to scrap bridge tolls Ministers criticised on care vote Morgan reveals assembly cabinet In depth: The Blair Years Who's who: Shadow cabinet Who's who: Lib Dem front bench BBC Freedom of Info blog Tory quits post over grammars row 'Stop and quiz' comes under fire Blair's constituents give views on their MP Poll Watch: May 07 BBC expert on what the past month's opinion polls tell us Follow the politics of the week with Gary Barker's cartoons... ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/uk_politics/03/shadow_cabinet/html/default.stm news when you want it Click on the images below for shadow cabinet member profiles Leader in the Lords Office of Deputy PM Leader - David Cameron The Old Etonian only entered Parliament in 2001 but his polished performances in the leadership campaign paved the way for victory over David Davis by a margin of more than two-to-one. Before becoming leader he was Tory campaign co-ordinator in the 2005 general election and shadow education secretary. He was special adviser to Home Secretary Michael Howard and Chancellor Norman Lamont in the 1990s. But he also spent seven years in business as a communications director for Carlton. Lib Dem front bench and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6719081.stm | Pupil knife search move ruled out news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 13:36 GMT 14:36 UK knife search move ruled out The Tories said the problem was a serious one The Scottish Government has said it has no plans to allow teachers to search pupils for knives. A call to look at the matter came from the Scottish Tories, after heads in England were granted new powers. Tory education spokeswoman Elizabeth Smith, a former teacher, said the issue must be taken very seriously. A government spokeswoman said that, where pupils were suspected of committing criminal offences, the police should be contacted. Ms Smith said: "Despite reservations from the teaching unions, the UK Government has now given head teachers in England these powers so they have a legal right to search pupils who are suspected of carrying knives and other dangerous weapons. Head teachers have said previously that they did not want these powers "Scotland must now follow suit." The MSP stressed that the problem involved only a tiny minority of youngsters and that such powers could be used only where there was a "strong suspicion" that a pupil was carrying a weapon. But the Scottish government said it had no plans to follow suit. A spokeswoman said: "Our position is that where a pupil is suspected of carrying a knife, they are suspected of a criminal offence and teachers should get the police involved at that stage. "We want our schools to be safe and secure places. "The position in Scotland is slightly different - head teachers have said previously that they did not want these powers." power to search for knives 31 May 07 | Education Teachers' union wants stab-vests 25 May 07 | Education Stiffer sanctions on knife crime 22 May 06 | Scotland Concern over knife-carrying pupils 07 Apr 00 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Search for 13-year-old canoeist Home search in Vicky murder probe Penalty for poison case gamekeeper MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_depth/uk_politics/2007/blair_years/default.stm Reports | Blair years Blair years 1997-2007 Wednesday, 23 May, 2007, 15:22 GMT 16:22 UK The Tony Blair story The life and times of Tony Blair - from rebellious schoolboy to world statesman. A decade of highs and lows From election landslides to Iraq invasion: how key events mapped to Blair's poll ratings. How will history judge him? Three experts give their views on how history will regard Tony Blair. Born 1953, becomes Labour leader and elected prime minister in THE 10 AGES OF BLAIR Today's the day an experiment in 'new politics' begins... How the UK economy fared over 10 years The ups and downs of life as the prime minister's wife Key moments: Blair's decade at the top Blair years: In his words The legacy of Cherie Blair Iraq overshadows foreign policy The rise and fall of spin Blair's public service record Bush hails 'good friend' Blair Campbell pays tribute to Blair Galloway: Blair will be damned How Blair put the media in a spin The BBC's Andrew Marr on the most media-obsessed government of modern times. BBC home editor Mark Easton assesses the impact on the UK's public services. It was 'education, education, education' in 1997, but what was achieved? Answering 'the Irish question' How a dogged commitment to the peace process eventually bore fruit. BBC diplomatic correspondent James Robbins on the defining foreign policy legacy. Did they blow it? BBC Economics Editor Evan Davis on the dire predictions for UK finances under Labour. '24 hours to save the NHS' Record budget increases, battling against deficits... but did Blair deliver on healthcare? Rock 'n' roll PM The BBC's David Sillito looks at the cultural impact of the Blair years. IN HIS OWN WORDS I give my thanks to you, the British people, for the times I have succeeded, and my apologies to you for the times I have fallen short Resignation speech, 10 May 2007 Who's had the last laugh - the prime minister or the satirists? How life in Britain changed Wars, rigged elections and murder - how prime ministerial departures compare A decade in pictures How terror battle was fought at home and abroad The global view, assessed by BBC correspondents Record as war leader will stay with him Lasting impact on the European Union Bush and Blair - A bond forged in ruins of 9/11 New-look civil liberties and a tricky balancing act Bremner's take on Blair-Brown Where are they now? Clickable guide to Blair's first cabinet Life after No 10 Michael Crick looks at what prime ministers do after losing power Making a new party Was New Labour the greatest achievement of Tony Blair? How comics and actors put their spin on Tony Blair's career ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/uk_politics/05/ld_front_bench/html/default.stm news when you want it Lib Dem front bench Click on the images below for Liberal Democrat front bench member profiles Chief whip in Commons Chief whip in Lords Leader's chief of staff Leader - Sir Menzies Campbell For a former Olympic sprinter, Sir Menzies Campbell had rather a slow journey to the top in politics. He was drawn to the then Liberals by the leadership of Jo Grimmond in the 1960s but it was not until 1987 that he finally entered the Commons after three attempts to win his North East Fife constituency. Sir Menzies was quickly appointed to the front bench, speaking on defence under the leadership of Paddy Ashdown. He was subsequently made Lib Dem foreign affairs spokesman and acting leader following the resignation of Charles Kennedy. In his mid-sixties, he presides over a young Lib Dem team, one of whom was born in 1980. Sir Menzies has promised to be a "safe pair of hands", but also to "take risks" to win support and power for his party. and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6715137.stm | Peers attack nuclear waste plans news when you want it Also in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 23:20 GMT 00:20 UK attack nuclear waste plans Peers said the disposal of waste needed to be democratically accountable Government plans to dispose of nuclear waste have been attacked as "incoherent and opaque" by a committee of peers. The House of Lords science and technology committee said it had "serious concerns" about how the removal of waste will be overseen. Chairman Lord Broers attacked Whitehall plans for an advisory body instead of a statutory commission. He said people "don't have enough confidence in politicians or the government" to trust them on the issue. The committee insisted the government should set up an independent group answerable to parliament to oversee the disposal of radioactive waste. It is now time to appoint a truly independent, democratically accountable body And it attacked ministers for moving with "unseemly haste" towards selecting potential sites. The government accepted most of the Committee on Radioactive Waste Management (CoRWM) recommendations for phased deep repository of radioactive material in July 2006. But it rejected proposals for a statutory Nuclear Waste Management Commission with direct accountability to MPs to oversee the process and implement the programme. Instead it went for a "new CoRWM" with advisory powers. The peers' report - entitled Radioactive Waste Management: An Update - said any oversight body needed "clearer lines of accountability and independent, expert scrutiny". Lord Broers said: "We have serious concerns about the way the government are moving forward with the Managing Radioactive Waste Safely programme. "The proposals they have announced so far have been incoherent and confusing. "If the government want people to be confident about the safety of nuclear energy and the disposal of nuclear waste, it is now time to appoint a truly independent, democratically accountable body to oversee the whole process." The committee also urged the government to find out which areas were geologically appropriate for deep repositories for geological reasons, before looking at which communities would be prepared to host them. A planned consultation on nuclear waste disposal should be put on hold until an independent body has been established, it added. 'must be on agenda' Key points: Energy statement In quotes: Energy strategy Tidal barrage moves a step closer Nuclear review 'was misleading' How would you like the UK's electricity to be generated by 2020? How nuclear power works Designing the next reactor Labour and the nuclear lobby New hope for UK coal mines Adding up nuclear equation Bringing meters out of the closet Is nuclear power way forward? Find out the arguments for and against nuclear power Department of Trade and Industry Energy White Paper supporting documents The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/glasgow_and_west/6713963.stm | Glasgow and West | Brown stresses 'listening Labour' news when you want it Also in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 17:41 GMT 18:41 UK stresses 'listening Labour' Gordon Brown has been holding a question and answer session Gordon Brown has pledged he will lead a listening government, as contenders for the deputy leadership role in the Labour Party held hustings in Glasgow. The event was a chance for Scottish party members to have their say before a party vote at the end of the month. Mr Brown is sole nominee for the top job but he is still touring the country outlining his leadership strategy. He appeared to suggest the next general election would take place in 2009, but later stepped back from this. Six contenders are putting forward their case to be made deputy leader. They are Hilary Benn, Hazel Blears, Jon Cruddas, Alan Johnson, Peter Hain and Harriet Harman. The deputy hopefuls have been facing party members Mr Brown spoke to delegates and took questions from party members in a session chaired by Glasgow Council leader Steven Purcell. He talked of the inspiration given to him by his father growing up in Kirkcaldy and said he had been trying to listen closely to people's concerns over the past 10 years. Mr Brown said: "Whether it is by questionnaires, whether it is by mailing, e-mailing or holding meetings or talking to all the community groups in our area, people will not respect us unless they know that - as councillors, MSPs and MPs do already - we are seen to be listening at every stage." At one stage he appeared to give away the date of the next general election as he told the audience that Labour had been kept out of power in the 1980s because it failed to address voters' concerns. He continued: "That is why, when I was asked about what we can do to make it possible for us to win more seats in 2011 [the next scheduled Scottish Parliament election] and win the general election in 2009, we have to be the Labour party listening and involved with the people of this country." But later he corrected himself, telling one questioner: "I was asked what we could do as a party to win the Scottish election in future and the general election - and I should say whenever the general election comes in the future." During the meeting Mr Brown also touched on the issue of terrorism saying stronger measures would have to be put in place to give the authorities the power to intervene at earlier stages of an investigation. He said: "That's why I support, for terrorists suspects, post-questioning interviewing. "That's why we will need to strengthen the policing resources available. But at every stage I would say this. "Because we are a country that believes in civil liberties of the individual, every time you have to strengthen the security measures that are necessary to protect our country, you also have to strengthen the accountability to parliament and the independent oversight of what police and other authorities are doing." Deputy hopefuls also attended the meeting to face delegates in an effort to win support for their campaigns. There is no guarantee that the deputy will get a senior job in government so questions to the deputy contenders have so far tended to focus on party organisation and campaigning. did the six deputy leader hopefuls get on during Newsnight debate? Deputy contenders split over Iraq Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq Hain says Labour 'like reserves' Benn calls for straight politics Brown 'humbled' by MPs' support Blair to Brown: Limbo time? What will Brown do as PM? Q&A: What happens now? Labour leader election timetable From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP GLASGOW AND WEST STORIES Home search in Vicky murder probe Life term for grandmother killer Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6715819.stm | MP slams 'absurd' grammars policy news when you want it Also in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 20:10 GMT 21:10 UK slams 'absurd' grammars policy Mr Brady is a former grammar school pupil himself A Tory MP who quit the frontbenches in the row over the party's policy on grammar schools has said its stance was "badly thought-out" and "absurd". Graham Brady said the party was picking a fight with ordinary families over the ending of its support for new grammars. But Tory leader David Cameron warned the party risks being "marooned" in the past unless it embraces change. He will reportedly attempt to face down rebels on Tuesday by pledging to step up the pace of modernisation. According to the Observer, Mr Cameron will use a speech to British Muslims - at a conference organised by Downing Street - to assert his authority over the party. Writing in the Sunday Times, Mr Cameron said: "Modernity matters because if we allow ourselves to be marooned on the wrong side of social and cultural change, the result is simply irrelevance and opposition." He added: "When the dust has settled on the grammar school debate it will be equally clear that our distinctive approach - more setting in schools, head teachers' control over discipline and a big expansion in opportunities for new schools to open - is robust." We should make it clear that if people want one we won't stand in their way It comes amid further evidence of the scale of the grassroots revolt against Mr Cameron's education policy. Before shadow education Secretary David Willetts' climbdown on Thursday, dozens of councillors in areas with grammar schools had threatened to stand as independents at the next election, according to the Sunday Times. In what opponents dubbed a "humiliating U-turn," Mr Willetts said a Tory government would consider opening new grammars in areas which already had them, if population changes justified it. A survey by the ConservativeHome.com website of 1,294 Tory members suggested that Mr Willetts' net satisfaction rating among the party grassroots has dropped from +37% before the row to -24%, while Mr Cameron's has fallen from +49% at the end of April to +22%. Tim Montgomerie of ConservativeHome said Tories "are unhappy with the grammar schools policy but also at the way the whole affair has been handled". Mr Brady, who resigned as Europe spokesman on Tuesday, said the grammars row could have been avoided if the party leadership had been more open before Mr Willetts made his original policy announcement. He told Sky News: "Within the parliamentary party if we had a discussion about these ideas before David Willetts made his speech, we would have avoided the whole of this unfortunate row going on." The ex-frontbencher continued his high-profile assault on Mr Cameron's policy in an article for the News of the World. He called on Mr Cameron to reverse the decision and allow new grammars if parents want them. The Altrincham and Sale West MP wrote: "First, accept it's absurd to claim grammar schools stop kids from poor families getting on in life. "Second, make it clear that a Conservative government will listen. We don't need to promise 'a grammar school in every town', but we should make it clear that if people want one we won't stand in their way." Before quitting, Mr Brady was reprimanded by the Conservative Party's chief whip and told to stick to his Europe brief. But since then others, including shadow attorney general Dominic Grieve, have also defended grammar schools. Mr Brady, a former grammar school pupil himself, accused the party leadership of trying to close down the debate. He said: "Last week I was told if I wanted to keep my job I had better shut up about education. "But I decided it was more important to tell the truth about something I passionately believe in." Meanwhile, a Sunday Telegraph poll of 1,014 people suggests voters believe Gordon Brown would make a better premier than David Cameron. But the Tories keep a five-point lead over Labour in the ICM poll. And Mr Cameron was thought to have the best policies for schools and the NHS, according to the poll carried out on 30 and 31 May. Mr Brown was seen best on the economy, tax, and the so-called war on terror. He was rated to make a better premier by 45%, against 43% for Mr Cameron and the more competent by 54%, compared with 29% for the Tory leader. deny grammars 'disarray' 31 May 07 | Politics Tory quits post over grammars row 29 May 07 | Politics 29 May 07 | Politics Tory reprimanded over grammars 29 May 07 | Politics Q&A: What are grammar schools? 16 May 07 | Education No more grammars, Tories pledge 09 Jan 06 | Education News of the World The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/this_week/default.stm | This Week online and on BBC One (Thursdays 2335-0020) Every Thursday, Michael Portillo, Diane Abbott and Andrew Neil are joined by a surprising combination of guests on the This Week sofa for an informal after-hours political chat. Congratulations for the award and the opportunity to watch my favourite programme anytime (The Apprentice and House excluded!). "We no longer control events in Iraq; events control us." "The problem is that politicians are scared of Murdoch." "I am in favour of the principle of 90 days detention."
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6712147.stm Ireland | Former MLAs collect nearly £500k news when you want it Also in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 12:59 GMT 13:59 UK MLAs collect nearly £500k David Trimble is one of the former MLAs receiving payment Almost half a million pounds has been paid to former MLAs who were not re-elected to the Assembly. The SDLP's Marietta Farrell was one of those receiving payment although she had only been an Assembly member for two months. All 28 former MLAs got the same amount - £15,908, which represents half a member's salary. The list includes former UUP leader David Trimble, fallen DUP star Paul Berry, Diane Dodds and Bob McCartney. The total is at present £445,424, but this will rise substantially when the former MLAs get a 'winding up allowance' at the end of the summer, which is available to cover costs including obligations to staff and office rent. BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Civil service 'fortnight on sick' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/shared/spl/hi/guides/456900/456937/html/nn1page1.stm Depth | The Cabinet news when you want it Week at a Glance Click on the images below for Cabinet member profiles Leader of the Lords Prime Minister - Tony Blair Tony Blair has secured a place in the record books as the only Labour prime minister to have won three successive general elections. He has said he will serve a full third term but that he will not seek re-election a fourth time. Mr Blair is credited, along with Gordon Brown and Peter Mandelson, with rebranding Labour as "New Labour" in a bid to reach beyond the party's traditional working-class support, ditching its historic commitment to public ownership and moving it towards the centre ground of British politics. Mr Blair's politics are, perhaps, shaped by the fact that he is not from a traditional working-class Labour background, having attended the prestigious Fettes public school, in Edinburgh, and Oxford University, where he studied law and played in a student rock band. On his election as an MP in 1983, he quickly rose through the parliamentary ranks. But it was as shadow home secretary in the early 1990s that he really made his name, venturing onto traditional Conservative territory with his pledge to be "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime". He soon became one of the Labour politicians most widely talked of as the next Labour leader. The opportunity came earlier than expected following the untimely death of John Smith in 1994. It was also at this point that his relationship with his one-time mentor, Gordon Brown, fractured over who would stand back in favour of whom in the leadership contest. But it was the 11 September attacks, and the ensuing "war on terror", that transformed Mr Blair from a politician with a largely domestic agenda into a war leader whose advocacy of the invasion of Iraq split public opinion and divided his own party. Lib Dem front bench and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6717361.stm | Ill Prescott remains in hospital news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 10:41 GMT 11:41 UK Prescott remains in hospital John Prescott was taken ill on Saturday Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott has spent a second night in hospital, with a suspected chest infection. Mr Prescott, 69, underwent medical tests after he was admitted on Saturday, but his condition is not understood to be life-threatening. He has apologised for missing an event marking the 200th anniversary of the British act abolishing the slave trade. It is believed Mr Prescott was taken ill on a train from his constituency in Hull to London King's Cross. His office have declined to confirm which hospital he is being treated at. Mr Prescott had been due to meet young people on Monday from the former slave ports of London, Liverpool and Bristol who will join the crew of a replica 18th century slave ship, the Amistad Freedom Schooner. From his hospital bed he sent a message apologising for his absence and wishing the venture well. Mr Prescott celebrated his 69th birthday on Thursday and recently visited Jamaica and Barbados during a tour of America and the Caribbean. In May Mr Prescott announced he would step down as Labour's deputy leader and the contest to replace him continues. He is due to leave office on 27 June, at the same time as Prime Minister Tony Blair. In 2002 it was announced he had suffered Type 2 diabetes for a number of years, managing the condition with medication. AND AUDIO NEWS The Deputy PM is having tests for a chest infection Prescott admitted into hospital 02 Jun 07 | Politics Prescott quits as deputy leader 10 May 07 | Politics 10 May 07 | Politics In pictures: John Prescott 10 May 07 | In Pictures Prescott regrets department split 17 Jan 07 | Politics Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6714975.stm | Thousands attend poverty protest news when you want it Also in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 17:12 GMT 18:12 UK attend poverty protest Midge Ure and Annie Lennox are backing the demonstration Thousands of protesters have lined the banks of London's Thames in a major demonstration against global poverty. At 1430 GMT, campaigners on the riverbank near the Houses of Parliament began "three minutes of noise" using whistles, alarms and other devices. Many protesters wore white, a reference to the 2005 Make Poverty History "White Band" campaign. The event was held to remind leaders of pledges on poverty ahead of the G8 summit in Germany next week. Rock stars Midge Ure and Annie Lennox have lent their support to the protest, called the World Can't Wait and organised by a coalition of 90 organisations. It was held as police battled hundreds of protesters at an anti-globalisation march in Rostock, Germany, 25km (16 miles) away from where next week's G8 summit will be held. The London demonstration was co-ordinated from a barge on the river with banners reading "We Can't Wait" and "Your Voices Against Poverty" and carrying a choir and African drummers. Organisers said upwards of 10,000 people attended the protest but police were unable to confirm this figure. Campaigners say leaders have not delivered on promises to tackle poverty made at the G8 meeting of world economic powers at Gleneagles in 2005. Kumi Naidoo, from the Global Call to Action Against Poverty said: "There's lots of talk about Tony Blair's legacy, and this summit offers a golden opportunity for him to really leave a mark. I expected to see extreme poverty but I didn't expect to see emaciated babies Huge G8 protest in Germany "In 2005 the British public gave the government a huge mandate to fight poverty. People across Africa are still waiting for the G8 to deliver." Midge Ure told the BBC News website: "It's a gentle reminder that we are here again two years down the line with commitments that have not been fulfilled." He added: "I went to Sierra Leone last year. It's one of the poorest countries to be born in. One in four children don't make it to the age of five. "There's no free health care. I expected to see extreme poverty but I didn't expect to see emaciated babies. It's obscene." He said he was hopeful that the future prime minister, Gordon Brown, would push forward steps to tackle world poverty. He took part in a debate at the event, while Annie Lennox was to address the crowds from a boat on the Thames. Among the other events on Saturday was a "blow the whistle" service organised by church groups at Methodist Central Hall. The service was part of a campaign by Christian organisations to see how far countries have progressed towards the goal set in 2000, of halving poverty by 2015. In 2005, the G8 pledged $50bn more aid, debt cancellation for up to 42 countries and access to affordable treatment for people with HIV/Aids by 2010. Bob Geldof organised a number of Live 8 concerts across the world to try to get the G8 to take action on poverty. Campaigners say rich nations have failed to deliver increased aid and debt cancellation. A Downing Street spokeswoman said progress had been made since Gleneagles. Among other achievements she said global aid had increased from $79.4bn to $103.9bn this year, 22 countries had been given 100% debt relief and $1bn had been raised for new and basic vaccines. AND AUDIO NEWS G8 protests in London and Germany $37bn debt cut for poor nations Geldof pushes G8 on aid to Africa Blair promises new Africa focus A day in the life of a Zambian orphanage in sound and pictures Kenneth Kaunda: A life in power Poverty worries beset Zambia HIV couple confront Aids crisis Zambia targets tourist dollars G8 Africa promises - one year on Did Live 8 make a difference? Self-reliance costs Eritrea dear Ivory Coast faces economic crisis Proud Ghana still depends on aid See how Africa has fared one year after the G8 promises Can aid really end poverty? Slow progress on trade deal G8 leaders agree $50bn aid boost A/V: G8 SUMMIT PROMISES Bob Geldof answers questions Did the G8 Make a Difference? The World Can't Wait The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://www.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/blogs/opensecrets/ Secrets to main content A blog about freedom of information by Martin Rosenbaum Police FOI in Ireland and Birmingham 31 May 07, 04:28 PM Interesting to note that the will now become subject to freedom of information. And this is a good reminder that the UK FOI system is much more wide-ranging than some international counterparts in terms of the extensive list of public bodies that it already covers. Indeed some of the most interesting disclosures in the UK have come from police forces. Here's one reported in today's , about the lack of body armour for police support officers, which actually provides a good example of the use of FOI by an MP (Tom Watson) to get information that he could not obtain from ministers. OGC still fights Gateway case 30 May 07, 11:45 AM Update on yesterday's entry: The Office of Government Commerce is not releasing the Gateway review of the ID cards project, but is appealing the Tribunal's decision to the High Court. The OGC says it regards confidentiality as essential to the Gateway process. Unsurprisingly this decision does not meet with the approval of today's Is the gateway open? 29 May 07, 10:41 AM The Department for Trade and Industry isn't happy at the way freedom of information is going, as the recently reported of the Trade Secretary Alistair Darling make clear. The DTI doesn't like the fact that FOI disclosures have to be decided on a case-by-case basis, because of 'the incremental harm to the policy development process that must inevitably arise from the disclosure of individually innocuous submissions'. There is clearly deep unease within the DTI about decisions from the Information Tribunal that have now started to open up the highly sensitive area of policy discussion within government - a development I have noted Mr Darling's letter refers to the 'discernible trend within the Information Tribunal that decisions on the public interest test have not been falling in the government's favour in key cases'. Perhaps Whitehall will derive some hope from the suggestion that the problem of delay, which has badly affected the rest of the FOI system, may now threaten the Tribunal's operations too. This is according to a useful about caseflow on the IMPACT blog about information law, although the Tribunal is responding by trying to speed up its processes. Currently about a quarter of the Commissioner's decisions are appealed by one side or the other to the Tribunal. In another more recent and also important , the Tribunal has ruled that the Office of Government Commerce should release a of the ID cards project. The OGC has until tomorrow to announce whether it will comply or fight on by appealing to the High Court - and this will be a very interesting decision in what is a significant test case. 25 May 07, 04:38 PM Campaign for Freedom of Information that we should believe the briefing about intention to drop the government's planned restrictions on FOI, whatever the views of the ministers currently involved ... There's a significant Parliamentary in the Mail on Sunday and elsewhere of David Maclean's now ... The presentations from yesterday's . The Information Commissioner Richard Thomas indicated that he would help public bodies dismiss 'vexatious' requests and that he will also be promoting a charter for 'responsible' use of FOI by those seeking information. 23 May 07, 12:04 PM David Maclean has now announced that he would like his Bill on MPs and FOI to be amended so that it requires the Commons to publish every year the figures for MPs' travel, accommodation, incidental expenses, secretarial and other allowances. This would convert the Speaker's pledge to do this into a legal obligation. It will be presented as a compromise and may shore up some of the diminishing support for the Bill. But it would make little difference to its actual practical impact. The Bill would still exempt Parliament generally from freedom of information. So even if the Commons has to carry on publishing the summary information about MPs' allowances that it already does, it means that MPs would not be threatened by further cases where the Information Commissioner might force them to reveal more and more detail about how they spend their allowances. Some MPs back the Bill because they would find more detailed disclosures uncomfortably intrusive. And the Bill would also completely rule out other requests (one example ) to the Parliamentary authorities for information relating to how the Houses of Parliament are run. 23 May 07, 09:46 AM Group-think - have you ever succumbed to it? I know I have. You share experiences and interests with the rest of a group, you reinforce each other's assumptions and beliefs, you embrace the apparent consensus - and then you're taken aback when you discuss it with outsiders who turn out to have a very different perspective on the issue involved. It's not an unknown phenomemon in the BBC. Nor is it in the House of Commons. Last week, when I heard MPs talk about the need to amend the FOI law to put themselves outside it, I was struck by the disparity between how they regarded their own concerns about their position and how their action would be regarded by the general public - and by their apparent ignorance of the size of this disparity. Perhaps not so much group-think as Commons-think or possibly common-think. Anyway the Labour and Tory leaderships have clearly realised, if somewhat belatedly, the damage to the reputation of Parliament caused by the passing of the Maclean Bill, whatever their view of the merits of it. Those words 'compromise' and 'climbdown' are in the air. The Bill will clearly not pass the Lords in its current form, if it passes at all. Clause 1(2) in the Bill exempts all information held by Parliament from the FOI Act. Clause 1(3) exempts MPs' correspondence held by other public authorities. These two proposals are completely separate. If the Bill had only included the latter in the first place, and not the former, then (leaving the other arguments aside) it would have been much better for the public standing of the British political class. But, whatever happens with this Bill, it's also worth reviewing the state of current ministerial thinking on the government's plans to restrict FOI generally . These will have much more impact in curtailing FOI than the Maclean Bill. Currently public bodies can turn down FOI requests if it would take too long to find the information. The government wants to allow them also to take into account the cost of reading it and considering and consulting others on whether to disclose. Ministers are still keen on this plan, even though they are now also consulting the public on whether any change to the FOI rules is necessary at all. They argue that these costs exist and so in principle should be reflected. They understand the counter-arguments - that in practice their plan will prevent valuable disclosures, while being open to abuse, providing perverse incentives to inefficiency, and prompting an increase in appeals which would reduce the cost savings. They look to the Information Commissioner to deal with such problems. The other government proposal last December was to allow public bodies to 'aggregate' all the requests received from one organisation within three months in working out whether the cost limit is exceeded, even if they are completly unconnected. However ministers have clearly taken on board the criticisms of this idea. In March Lord Falconer stated that if requests 'are genuinely different then aggregation should not apply'. The ministerial viewpoint is that aggregating requests is purely to stop requesters getting round the cost limit by splitting up one request into several different ones, and that authorities should not be allowed to aggregate unrelated requests. The government is naturally reluctant to present this as a climbdown. But it is clear that Falconer's remarks in March are now the government's official position, and that this is different from the proposal in the government consultation last December. So at the moment we can still expect the goverment to proceed with a part of its plans to restrict FOI. But of course such a decision may well be perceived in a very different way inside ('necessary reduction of an excessive administrative burden') and outside ('outrageous obsession with secrecy') official circles. And it may well be a different group of ministers taking the final decision, chosen by Gordon Brown. Will they worry about being trapped by group-think? Meanwhile I'm going to a freedom of information tomorrow, with hundreds of other people who will happily spend all day discussing FOI, because it's one of the most fascinating and important topics facing the country today. But then everyone thinks that, don't they? Neutral or increasingly secretive? 21 May 07, 10:31 AM As the Maclean Bill has been proceeding through Parliament over the past few months, one notable phenomenon has been the apparent reluctance of many of its MP supporters (with a few honourable exceptions) to appear on TV or radio to explain why they think Parliament should be exempt from freedom of information. The public debate on this issue has been remarkably one-sided. However since Friday's vote the Labour MP Tom Watson has defended his backing for the Bill on , much to the exasperation of . (If you want to read a blogging MP who voted against the Bill, you could try Now that the Bill is going to the Lords, it will be interesting to see if Lord Falconer speaks to it or leaves that to his junior in the Justice Ministry, Baroness Ashton. In January the Guardian that Falconer was then trying to get the government to block the Bill, warning his colleagues that unless it did so it would be perceived as an 'increasingly secretive government'. But the government decided to take an officially 'neutral' stance on the Bill, while generally suspected of encouraging it behind-the-scenes. So assuming Lord Falconer still thinks the same way, will he manage to have more influence with his colleagues in the Lords? 19 May 07, 05:14 PM The MPs who backed the Bill yesterday to exempt Parliament from FOI say they are worried about cases where personal information about their constituents could be disclosed by public authorities due to freedom of information. I've been on the lookout for any examples of this actually happening - ie, cases where public authorities have under FOI put into the public domain correspondence from MPs which contains personal data about constituents, where that personal data should not be disclosed. From the information provided in the debate yesterday in the Commons I have only found it possible to track down one alleged instance of anything like this. Simon Burns, the Tory MP for West Chelmsford, referred to a newspaper using FOI to obtain correspondence between Bob Russell, the LibDem MP for Colchester, and Colchester Council. I think he is probably talking about However this article doesn't tell the people of Billericay anything about the contents of Mr Russell's letters, let alone any personal data about his constituents. It just recounts how many letters he writes, which in his case is quite a lot. Is this really illegitimate FOI-based journalism on the part of the Billericay Weekly News? Well, as it happens, this kind of thing won't actually be stopped by the . The Bill would only prevent public authorities releasing the contents of MPs' letters, not information about the numbers they receive. Next stop - the Lords 18 May 07, 02:17 PM The Bill to exempt MPs from freedom of information has passed the House of Commons, as the tactical manoeuvres of those backing it proved superior to the tricks employed by the smaller number of MPs who are opposed. This is testament to the organising ability of the MPs behind the Bill, as well as the support it has received from the backbench officers of the Parliamentary Labour Party. Of the 96 MPs who backed the Bill in the final vote, there were 78 Labour and 18 Tories (and no LibDems). Now it will go to the Lords, where it will again encounter some fierce opposition, particularly but not exclusively from some Liberal Democrat Peers. It has already this afternoon been subjected to a sideswipe in the Lords from the Tory, Lord (Kenneth) Baker. But doubtless David Maclean, the MP who has successfully guided the Bill so far, has got his ideas about how to get it through the Lords too. The debate in the Commons this morning was mainly noted for the tedious parliamentary time-wasting that was tactically required by the situation. The biggest laugh (unintentionally obtained) went to the justice minister Bridget Prentice when she stated the government was neutral on the Bill. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites This is a blog about freedom of information, written by the BBC's for more information, or to find out how you can join in. Want to publish this banner on your own blog? Police FOI in Ireland and Birmingham Three Gorges Dam - the British view Is the gateway open? MPs expenses - more to come Neutral or increasingly secretive? Big Brother police costs revealed The costs of police investigations connected to the TV show Big Brother are revealed in documents obtained by the BBC under freedom of information. Reports of youth bus crime soars Reported youth crime on buses in London soars since the introduction of free bus travel for under-16s. M1 'could be dangerous in rain' Yorkshire's newest stretch of motorway does not meet up-to-date standards of construction. The above are three recent stories about freedom of information from the BBC News website Freedom of Information stories from the BBC News website World Have Your Say Headlines for your site Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/bbc_parliament/default.stm | BBC Parliament news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:16 GMT 19:16 UK House of Lords LIVE Osborne's public service ideas Booktalk with Richard Toye From Beaconsfield to Baghdad Today in Parliament Special on Blair The latest news from Westminster The Record: Europe-politics in the EU From Beaconsfield to Baghdad The parliamentary life of Tony Blair Lord Ashdown on interventionism The former LibDem leader's LSE lecture 1030BST: Royal opening of the Welsh Assembly The Queen is officially opening the Senedd on Tuesday morning from 1030BST. WHAT'S ON BBC Parliament Enter a full postcode Or find by area Yorkshire & the Humber About parliamentary programming on the BBC Nick Cohen argues that the liberal left now support the far right The Welsh Assembly: Debates and law-making from Cardiff
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6716413.stm | Blair and Merkel meet before G8 news when you want it Also in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 16:34 GMT 17:34 UK and Merkel meet before G8 Tony Blair is predicting a 'major step forward' on climate change Prime Minister Tony Blair has made a flying visit to Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel ahead of this week's G8 summit. Mr Blair wants to discuss Africa aid and climate change before G8 leaders gather in Heiligendamm, northern Germany, on Wednesday. Reports suggest Mrs Merkel may also warn Mr Blair she wants to revive the stalled European constitution. She will push ahead with the plan at an EU summit in Brussels on 21 June. The German chancellor has put climate change and Africa at the top of the agenda for her presidency of the G8, as Mr Blair did in 2005 at Gleneagles, in Scotland. The G8 nations - Britain, the US, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, Canada and Russia - are under pressure to make good on promises made at Gleneagles to double aid and write off debts. They are expected confirm their intention to implement pledges made at 2005's Gleneagles summit for an extra $50bn in annual aid by 2010. We will wrestle with climate change until the very last minute Angela Merkel, German Chancellor US opposes German plan Mr Blair wants a framework to be drawn up with the "plus five" states - China, India, South Africa, Brazil and Mexico - for action to tackle global warming, to replace the Kyoto targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which expire in 2013. Germany wants all G8 members to agree timetables and targets for major cuts to greenhouse gas emissions. But the US appears to have rejected Germany's draft proposals, according to leaked documents. US President George W Bush has also announced his own climate strategy raising the prospect of a showdown with the European nations at the G8 summit. Mr Bush called for a separate international gathering to create a "new global framework" on the issue in the autumn, rejecting the European approach to cutting greenhouse gases in favour of a technology-led model. Mrs Merkel insisted the UN and not individual countries should take the lead in fighting climate change and acknowledged she was in for a tough summit. "We will wrestle with climate change until the very last minute," she told Der Spiegel magazine. "You will see that there are differing opinions from the fact that some things might not be in the final document." Speaking in South Africa on Friday, Mr Blair said Mr Bush's comments were "extremely important" as they marked the first clear public statement by the US that it wants to be part of a global deal on climate change. He insisted there was the possibility of taking "a major step forward" at Heiligendamm, with an international agreement that includes the most polluting countries. And he called for G8 leaders to "step up to the plate" by recommitting to Gleneagles pledges on aid, conflict resolution and fighting lethal disease. Mrs Merkel is meanwhile expected to brief Mr Blair about her plans to push ahead with deal on the EU constitution at a summit in Brussels later this month. The German chancellor, who currently holds the presidency of the EU, wants a wide-ranging treaty to take forward many of the proposals in the constitution rejected by French and Dutch voters two years ago. But - at what will be his final major engagement before stepping down as prime minister - Mr Blair will push for a scaled-down treaty to update the EU's institutions without the wider and more controversial constitutional elements. 'opposes' G8 climate proposals 26 May 07 | Science/Nature Ministers in talks for G8 summit 30 May 07 | Europe Blair issues Africa action call 31 May 07 | Politics UN welcomes Bush's climate plans 01 Jun 07 | Science/Nature Blair push for climate progress 01 Jun 07 | Politics US seeks new greenhouse gas goals 31 May 07 | Americas 30 Jan 06 | Science/Nature Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6716865.stm | Brown pledge to protect liberties news when you want it Also in the news Sunday, 3 June 2007, 15:02 GMT 16:02 UK pledge to protect liberties Mr Brown has pledged to safeguard traditional freedoms Gordon Brown has pledged not to put civil liberties at risk over plans to introduce new anti-terror laws. Mr Brown wants to give police more powers - including holding suspects without charge for more than 28 days - when he takes over as prime minister. Civil liberties campaigners warn the plan amounts to "internment". But in a speech earlier, Mr Brown insisted he would bring in safeguards, including a judicial review of detention every seven days. Mr Brown is also planning to summon cross-party talks in the Privy Council on the use of phone-tap evidence in court. Such a move was resisted by Prime Minister Tony Blair because security services fear it will expose their secret surveillance methods. Mr Brown also wants to allow police to continue questioning suspects after they have been charged. He wants judges to make support for terrorism an aggravating factor in sentencing, as it currently is with racially aggravated crime. We should give the police the power to question people so we can both prevent incidents and get to the bottom of some of these very, very strange dealings Lords back phone taps Mr Brown, who is due to take over as prime minister on 27 June, told a Labour leadership hustings in Newcastle he was ready to be "tough in the security measures that are necessary to prevent terrorist incidents in this country". He added: "We will have to consider further legislation to do so. I think that is where the public will need to recognise that we have got a new security problem." But he said he would make sure that "at no point will our British traditions of supporting and defending civil liberties be put at risk. "There has got to be independent judicial oversight. There has got to be proper parliamentary accountability. "We should give the police the power to question people so we can both prevent incidents and get to the bottom of some of these very, very strange dealings." Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Nick Clegg said Mr Brown "appears a little more concerned about parliamentary accountability than his predecessor". But he added: "It now remains to be seen whether this is just a procedural fig-leaf for more authoritarian measures or part of a genuine shift in guaranteeing and not undermining our fundamental civil liberties." And the party's justice spokesman Simon Hughes warned Mr Brown he would have a "fight on his hands" if he wanted to extend the detention of terror suspects. Mr Blair's unsuccessful attempt to introduce 90-day detention without charge in 2005 was opposed by Tories, Liberal Democrats and some Labour backbenchers. And Conservative sources say there is no new evidence to suggest that police need more than 28 days. But Constitutional affairs minister Harriet Harman, one of six Labour MPs vying to be Mr Brown's deputy, said she thought MPs would back new laws - including 90 day detention - if Mr Brown could prove they were needed. Twenty-eight days is already the longest period to hold a person without charge in the free world. If you go beyond 28 days it is internment Send us your views "I don't think there will be a huge problem if there is a proper debate about it - if evidence is brought forward about why current powers are inadequate and what the safeguards will be," she told BBC One's Sunday AM. Her deputy leadership rivals Peter Hain, Hilary Benn and Hazel Blears also indicated they would back new anti-terror laws. Campaign group Liberty said it supported the use of phone-tap evidence and post-charge questioning. But director of Liberty Shami Chakrabarti said Mr Brown was making "a grave mistake" in proposing to extend questioning without charge beyond 28 days. "Twenty-eight days is already the longest period to hold a person without charge in the free world," she said. "If you go beyond 28 days it is internment." The government's independent reviewer of anti-terrorism legislation, Lib Dem peer Lord Carlile, welcomed Mr Brown's initiative. Lord Carlile told the BBC: "I do think it is time for the political parties to get together and to try to reach a consensus with the government, so we can move forward on terrorism legislation on the basis of fitness for purpose, rather than having a hot political debate about these desperately difficult and important matters." But shadow home secretary David Davis, for the Conservatives, said Mr Brown's decision to announce the move through briefings to Sunday newspapers, rather than to MPs in the Commons, did not bode well for cross-party talks. "It is extraordinary that the chancellor has chosen to publicise these proposals five days before the home secretary announces his counter-terrorism plans in Parliament. "It does not auger well for cross-party attempts to build a consensus for counter-terrorism measures which the whole country needs to get behind," said Mr Davis. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction to Gordon Brown's terror proposals Brown pledge to protect liberties Brown plans new anti-terror laws End culture of spin, says Harman More stop and quiz terror powers Reaction to 'stop and question' Control orders flawed, says Reid Reid reviews anti-terror options A look at home secretary's response to control order crisis A police state? The issues Should police have quiz powers? Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6712781.stm | Local Labour parties 'back Benn' news when you want it Also in the news Friday, 1 June 2007, 17:10 GMT 18:10 UK Labour parties 'back Benn' The deputy leader will be announced on 24 June Hilary Benn is the most popular deputy leadership contender among local Labour parties, figures suggest. Mr Benn came top of the six contenders after the formal close of nominations with the backing of 77 constituency parties, with Jon Cruddas next on 68. Harriet Harman got 60, Alan Johnson 45, Hazel Blears 36 and Peter Hain 23. The figures could offer a guide to the strength of support in the ballot of party members, MPs, MEPs and trade unionists which starts next week. The winner will be announced at a special Labour conference on 24 June. In total, 309 local Labour executive committees - fewer than half the total number - said they backed one deputy leadership candidate over the others. The nomination figures also show Chancellor Gordon Brown received 407 nominations from local parties, out of a possible 633, for the Labour leadership. The party claimed this was an "unprecedented" level of support for a would-be leader, with the 1994 leadership elections seeing just 109 nominations cast by local parties in total. I am really excited by the amazing support our campaign has been getting Jon Cruddas, Labour deputy contender Peter Watt, Labour's general secretary, said: "Not only are hundreds of members attending each of our hustings but across the country local activists in 407 constituencies have attended selection meetings and have chosen to nominate Gordon Brown. "The message coming out of all those meetings is clear: Labour Party members have united behind Gordon Brown as the man to lead our Party and our country." But some local parties are thought to have supported Mr Brown's left wing rival John McDonnell, who failed to gain enough nominations from MPs to enter the contest. Councillor Susan Press, of Calder Valley Constituency Labour Party (CLP), said: "The mood of my constituency was once the person we wanted to nominate had gone out of the race it seemed pointless to nominate Gordon Brown." She said activists did not want "some sham show of unity," adding Mr Brown "didn't have the support of all the constituency Labour parties". She said Calder Valley CLP had wanted to nominate Mr McDonnell, although their MP, Christine McCafferty, nominated Mr Brown. Mr Brown will be crowned leader without a contest - but the contest to be his deputy is still thought by most pundits to be wide open, with Mr Benn and Mr Johnson trading places as favourite at the bookmakers. Mr Cruddas, the only backbencher in the contest, won the first televised debate on Tuesday, according to a poll on Newsnight's website, followed by Harriet Harman and Alan Johnson. Giving his reaction to the constituency party nominations, Mr Cruddas said: "I am really excited by the amazing support our campaign has been getting. "This support isn't on my profile, it is based on the arguments and ideas I have been putting forward. The fact that we're picking up such momentum is down to the fact that members want change." did the six deputy leader hopefuls get on during Newsnight debate? Deputy contenders split over Iraq Brown warned on 'shadow' of Iraq Hain says Labour 'like reserves' Benn calls for straight politics Brown 'humbled' by MPs' support Blair to Brown: Limbo time? What will Brown do as PM? Q&A: What happens now? Labour leader election timetable From rebellious schoolboy to global statesman. Would Brown be right for PM? Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/a-z_of_parliament/default.stm | A-Z of Parliament news when you want it Below you will find links to our guide to the workings of Parliament. Click on any of them to find out more about your chosen topic. Leading academics dissect the A-level politics syllabus Who writes it, and what is it for? What do they do? And how do they do it? Adjournment of the House Amendment of the law Broadcasting Parliament - key dates Catching the Speaker's Eye Catering - Refreshment Department Chairman of ways and means Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Chancellor of the exchequer Clerk of the House Clerk of the Parliaments Committee of Standards and Privileges Committee of the Whole House Conservative Party Leadership Election Crossing the Floor of the House Death of a Member Debate on the Address Departments of the House Department of the Official Report Father of the House Finance and Administration Department House of Commons Commission House of Commons - Parties House of Lords - Parties Journal of the Commons Labour Party Leadership Election Leader of the House of Commons Leader of the House of Lords Leader of the Opposition Lord President of the Council Orders of the Day Parliamentary Private Secretaries (PPSs) Practice of the House Register of members' interests Sittings of the House State Opening of Parliament Ten Minute Rule Bill You Can't Do That! and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/programmes/politics_show/default.stm | Politics Show "Balance between individual liberty and security". Peter Hain was commenting on proposals from Gordon Brown for new anti-terrorist legislation... TEXT your comments to the Politics Show now... Politics [space] comment and send to 63399... WHAT YOU ARE SAYING Dogs ARE an important issue - they frequently ruin people's lives and make their homes hell to be in. This is anti social behaviour that we need protection from. So yes move it up the agenda. What is 'emissions trading'? Emissions trading is a way of reducing emissions - but how do these schemes actually work. We reveal some facts. After 30 years, it is still clear that 'something has to be done' about Stonehenge and the adjacent A303... Why should all the decent dogs of whatever breed have to suffer for those tiny minority who are owned by morons? Follow the politics of the week with Gary Barker's cartoons... We spend a day with Bradford's chief Dog Warden Do you feel it's getting better - leave your vote here... THE POLITICS SHOW IN THE UK Welsh Assembly: what next? Open wide - if you can... Aylesbury estate - any hope? NORTH EAST AND CUMBRIA Vertical streets of Walker 'We waste your money' A right to assisted death Love thy Post Office 'I'll be watching you'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/81344.stm | Links to UK political websites news when you want it Also in the news Wednesday, 10 January 2007, 11:14 GMT to UK political websites Political parties in House of Commons Parties with members in Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly, London Assembly or European Parliament The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites POLITICAL PARTIES IN COMMONS These parties have one or more MPs in the House of Commons: Social Democratic and Labour Party Ulster Democratic Unionist Party Respect - The Unity Coalition Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern PARTIES WITH MEMBERS IN SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT, WELSH ASSEMBLY, LONDON ASSEMBLY OR EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT Green Party of England and Wales Green Party of Scotland POLITICAL PARTIES REGISTERED BY ELECTORAL COMMISSION Adam Lyal's Witchery Tour Party Alliance for Green Socialism Alliance Party of Northern Ireland Church of the Militant Elvis Party Communist Party of Britain Conservative And Unionist Party Dorset Stop The War English Progressive & Liberty Party Highlands & Islands Alliance - Càirdeas Independent Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern Independent Working Class Association Iranian Civil Rights Committee John Marek Independent Party Local Education Action By Parents Mebyon Kernow - The Party for Cornwall No Candidate Deserves My Vote! Northern Ireland Women's Coalition Northern Ireland Unionist Party Official Monster Raving Loony Party Organisation of Free Democrats People Against Bureaucracy Action Group Plaid Cymru- Party of Wales Progressive Union Party of Northern Ireland Protect Rural Scotland Party Residents Associations of Epsom and Ewell Respect - The Unity Coalition Revolutionary Communist Party Britain Rock 'n Roll Loony Party Save Our NHS Group Scottish Senior Citizens Unity Party SDLP (Social Democratic & Labour Party) Socialist Party of Great Britain Socialist Party (Northern Ireland) Swindon Org UK Party Thames Ditton / Weston Green Residents' Association UKpopdems - Popular Democrats United Kingdom Independence Party United Kingdom Unionist Party U.K.U.P. Upminster and Cranham Residents Association Vote 2 Stop The War West Ewell and Ruxley Residents' Association Department for Communities and Local Government Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Department for Culture, Media and Sport Department for Education and Skills Foreign and Commonwealth Office Department for International Development Department for Constitutional Affairs Department for Work and Pensions Department of Trade and Industry Hansard - House of Commons Hansard - House of Lords Her Majesty's Stationery Office Central Office of Information Office for National Statistics National Assembly for Wales London Mayor and London Assembly What Downing Street says There are far too many political blogs to list in full, but Alan Connor, from the BBC's Daily Politics programme, has written a guide to them which includes links to many of the best known. Alan Connor's guide to political blogs in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/6716361.stm | Archbishop attacks assembly power News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 05:56 GMT 06:56 UK attacks assembly power The Queen officially opens the Senedd on Tuesday The Archbishop of Wales has criticised new law-making powers which are coming into force in the third Welsh Assembly Government. Dr Barry Morgan said the third assembly term begins with a "tortuous and convoluted" system of legislating which does not go far enough. The Queen will officially open the Senedd on Tuesday. The assembly government said Archbishop Morgan was entitled to his opinion on the 2006 Government of Wales Act. Assembly members have been given new powers to make their own laws. The legislation also provided for an eventual move to full law-making powers but only after a referendum. But Archbishop Morgan, while recognising that the Act gives Wales more legal bite and authority than before, said it did not go far enough. The Archbishop criticised the 'clumsy method of governance' He said the assembly should have primary legislative power in all the fields like education and health which are devolved to it. He criticised a "cumbersome and clumsy method of governance" which entails the Welsh assembly petitioning the Secretary of State for Wales, who in turn asks the Government for time to introduce Orders in Council in Parliament, to give the Assembly powers to pass legislation within the boundaries of each order. The church leader called it a "rather a demeaning way of setting about things". He added: "It is a very tortuous process, even when the governments in London and Cardiff are of the same political hue. If they are not, relationships could be fraught and the governance of Wales would suffer as a result. "If Wales, like Scotland, is mature enough to have a legislature it ought to be responsible for law making itself and not have to petition the Secretary of State and Westminster for the right to do so," Dr Morgan added. He also criticised the assembly government for not publishing a guide to explain the new Act's implications to the people of Wales. Dr Morgan said the movement Cymru Yfory had taken it on itself to produce a guide, as an act of public service. A spokesman for the assembly government said: "Devolution is an evolutionary process and the new Act opens an exciting chapter for devolution in Wales allowing the National Assembly to pass laws, which would have previously had to go through the UK parliament. "We are about to embark on the use of the new Government of Wales Act machinery for acquiring new powers and the test of their workability will now come through practice. "We have worked hard to raise awareness of how this will benefit the people of Wales." The spokesman welcomed Dr Morgan and Cymru Yfory's efforts to build on work to further raise awareness of the new Act. AND AUDIO NEWS "The system... is very complicated and tortuous" Rhodri Morgan wants his new cabinet to find common ground. Labour 'to be out of power soon' Deal still possible, says German Deal back on table, says Plaid Lib Dems vote to revive alliance Morgan makes promise to 'listen' Labour lined up for minority rule Grassroots Lib Dems revive deal Would-be first ministers fight on Plaid accuses Labour of arrogance Grassroots Plaid on Tory deal Labour deal document with Plaid Your views on the twists and turns A big step from tribal loyalties Q&A: Assembly 'rainbow coalition' Dispatches by BBC Wales' political editor from the front line The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Cycle deaths road 'not gritted' Death crash driver 'fell asleep' Water tank crashes onto baby pen MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_depth/europe/2003/inside_europe/default.stm Reports | 2003 | Inside Europe in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:21 GMT 19:21 UK EU-Serbia talks 'resume in June' The EU says talks with Serbia will resume soon as Belgrade is co-operating over war crimes suspects. EU urged to relax farm feed rules New EU chemical law takes effect Brussels' quest for the green car EU organ donor card planned EU asks industry to fight obesity Sarkozy 'won't stop Turkey talks' EU sets new digital media rules EU marks Missing Children's Day EU adviser backs job protection Mark Mardell on the US bid to get Europe on side for 'Star Wars' Questions and answers on the successor to the EU constitution A guide to the EU's new 'Reach' law on chemicals THE UK AND EUROPE UK attacked over savings scandal MEPs say that the UK should pay back those who lost savings in the Equitable Life scandal. EU 'does not need constitution' The UK and Dutch prime ministers say the EU needs changes to existing treaties, not a big constitution. Bulgarian EU enthusiasm wanes Bulgarians are impatient for results from their EU membership, five months after joining, Nick Thorpe reports. Blair wants end to 'abstract' EU 'No UK referendum' on EU rules Tebbit supports EU exit campaign Minister accused over EU jail law Cameron sets out vision for EU Yes camp hardens position Constitution 'key for EU success' Sarkozy urges EU reform Leaders chart future for Europe What the EU constitution says Del Ponte urges EU Serbia caution EU warns Macedonia over entry Viewpoints: Balkan boost for EU EU hardens tone on enlargement Turkey criticises EU 'injustice' How are EU laws made? We look at mobile phone charges At-a-glance guide to Europe's Institutions and Agencies Trace a turbulent century through Europe's changing borders 'Hidden' trade barriers alarm EU Compensation warning for airlines EU backs mobile roaming fee cut EU tariffs offer for ex-colonies EU price probe into Apple iTunes EU in court move over Endesa bid EU backing for 'open skies' deal EU free movement of labour map Carbon emissions trading scheme What now for constitution? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS A guide to the EU Commission World Service radio schedules Turks and Croats have begun talks, but what about the others? What do MEPs do? A guide to Europe's elected chamber Key dates and events in the history of the European Union ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC and
http://www.bbc.co.uk/nickrobinson Robinson's Newslog to main content 29 May 07, 08:52 AM The problem with political ideas is that once you unleash them you cannot control them. The Tories' Great Grammar School Row was started by a thoughtful speech by the party's education spokesman David Willetts in which he dared to challenge the success of grammar schools in transforming the life chances of poor bright kids. Up until then, David Cameron had always made an essentially political argument. First, he told his party to focus on the education of the many and not the few. Then he pointed out, as he did again in the Mail on Sunday , that "Conservative governments in the past - and Conservative councils in the present - have both failed to carry out [the policy of opening new grammar schools] because, ultimately, it is not what parents want." It is Willetts' idea and not Cameron's politics which backers of grammar schools regard as so dangerous. They fear that the Tories have given anti-grammar school campaigners a new script and may give the Labour Party new courage to campaign against them. Thus the Tory MP Graham Brady dared to engage in the debate - releasing data which, he claimed, prove that grammars improve the life chances even of those who don't go to them. Brady is the MP for the town in which he went to school. He has long been seen as the MP for Altrincham Grammar. Now the Tory leadership is threatening to discipline him and even drop him from the front bench. His crime was to re-open a debate which the Tory leader has declared to be over. You can't, though, discipline an idea. The problem with David Willetts' speech was not the policy it spelt out. Most Tories had grudgingly accepted that. It was the idea contained within it which begged a question which won't go away - if grammar schools are failing, why should Tories oppose their closure and if they're not failing, why not allow more of them to be built? A debate which will go on. Incidentally, David Cameron's article suggests that someone close to him has been reading the exchanges on this blog about the role class plays in the Tories Great Grammar School Row. He declares in it that "I may be a white, forty-something old Etonian, but that doesn't constrain what I do." This may be the last blog for a day or two. Not content with the bank holiday washout I am taking a few days to wallow in the rain whilst my colleague John Pienaar follows the PM to Africa. Poor judgement, you might think. 25 May 07, 11:31 AM Have I got a nervous few hours to go? The hours before a recording of Have I Got News For You are stressful enough. If, that is, you can call mugging up on sharks that breed without having sex the Cornish man who's not slept for a week how Mick Jagger deals with his diminutive private parts The hours after recording and pre-transmission are, if anything, more so. Last night we recorded an hour and a half of television - which is at the lower end of the scale - but only half an hour will make it onto the air (a bit more on the extended Saturday night show and the ). So, which bits will stay and which go? On a previous appearance on HIGNFY I thought I'd been reasonable quick-witted, though never hilarious, throughout the recording. On air, I was merely humiliated for my bad rendition of "I'm just a poor boy... " on Children in Need, made one mediocre gag and then appeared to be mute for the rest of the time. The programme makers are, of course, interested in what makes their audience giggle and not giving their guests their fair share of airtime. This gives someone in my position something of a dilemma. Can you be funny without crossing the line of what a BBC man should and shouldn't say? My guess is that you'll hear me being indiscreetly rude about Home Improvement Packs and about a recent BBC News graphic (I've already apologised to my bosses). I may also be seen to reveal more than you might have wished to know about Mick Jagger. I do hope they don't use the bit when I .... Perhaps it's best, on second thoughts, if that stays on the cutting room floor. So close and yet... 24 May 07, 10:12 AM chastised me for ignoring another "moment of history" in British politics - the Nats coming to power not just in Edinburgh but Cardiff too. Not so fast. Just as a "rainbow coalition" led by Plaid Cymru and including the Tories and the Lib Dems looked on the cards, word emerged that the latter had shied away at the final hurdle. I trust you'll keep me up to date if anything changes. I can't get on a train to Cardiff tonight in any event as I'm due for my annual humiliation on Have I Got News For You. All topical gags gratefully received. No cash prizes I'm afraid. I can only promise the satisfaction of seeing your material used on air. 23 May 07, 05:25 PM All leaders need luck and our future leader's just got lucky. The long wait for him to move next door in Downing Street is protecting him and the government from the worst consequences of an extraordinary series of ministerial cock-ups. Since everyone knows a change is coming the impact of them - both individually and as a whole - has been diminished. Imagine just for a moment if today's no confidence motion in the Health Secretary had come at any other time. The question would have been asked insistently - can Patricia Hewitt survive? I can find no-one who believes she'll still be in charge of the NHS in a few weeks time so today's debate takes on a certain ritualistic quality. Or think about how yesterday's U-turn on Home Improvement Packs might have played? And what about the revelation that the new secretary of state for justice only learnt about the creation of his new department from a newspaper report and was still in dispute with the most senior judges in the land? The much talked of "stable and orderly transition" has sucked all the tension out of the air in the Westminster village. Could that be why ministers are getting as many awkward announcements out of the way as possible before the great transition. Witness this week's politically tricky announcements on nuclear power, planning and road pricing. This is not so much burying bad news as getting all of it out of the way whilst no-one much cares. Has Gordon Brown been lucky or is he proving the truth of that old cliche that you make your own luck? Class war hots up 22 May 07, 11:56 AM At last, we get to the nub of the matter. You may be forgiven for thinking that the Great Grammar School Row is about Tory education policy or how best to help disadvantaged children or, even, how David Cameron runs the Tory party. Not a bit of it. At its heart is the oldest British obsession of them all. No, not the weather. Class. Once again it was John Humphrys (Cardiff High School) who took up the cudgel on this morning's Today programme (listen ). He challenged David Cameron (Eton) on the number of public school boys there were in his shadow cabinet. What, you might ask, has that got to do with anything. The answer is everything. Many of David Cameron's fiercest critics are those who believe that the job of the Tory party is to fight for what Margaret Thatcher called "our people" - by which they mean the aspirational classes. They believe that in the years BT (Before Thatcher) there existed a cross party consensus which punished "our people". The consensus, they believed, was sustained by the political classes who were largely public school boys. In the years AD (After David) they fear a new consensus is emerging which is politically correct, green, liberal and sneers at those who work hard to get their kids the advantages they didn't have. The pre-Thatcher consensus was called But-skellism (after the Tory Rab Butler and Labour's Hugh Gaitskell). We might call the new one Bla-meronism. Do not be surprised that it is inside the Tory Party that this class war is raging. It's been going on for years. Margaret Thatcher was attacked by the toffs for leading a party of "estate agents and second hand car dealers". Michael Heseltine was once described as "a man who has to buy his own furniture". Douglas Hurd was so nervous of his Etonian past that he ran for his party's leadership describing himself as the son of a farm worker which somewhat understated his father's background. Yesterday, I asked the Tory leader at his news conference how he would answer those who said his policy was fine for a "posh, rich kid" like himself but wondered how it would help someone like Michael Howard, his predecessor, the son of poor immigrants, who believes that a grammar school education was the key to escape from poverty. The Tory leader retorted that focussing on his background was old fashioned and irrelevant. However, the key to success as a leader is persuading people that even if you're not one of them you understand how they feel. The Tories who feel wounded by the Great Grammar School Row fear that he hasn't a clue how they feel and never will. 21 May 07, 06:32 PM Gordon Brown and David Cameron are moving to counter suggestions that they allowed or even encouraged MPs to exempt themselves from Freedom of Information legislation. Neither of them voted on Friday. This morning David Cameron used his news conference to say that he was not in favour of the move and had only not voted against it since he had a prior commitment in his constituency. It is far from clear, however, that he tried to stop his colleagues. Meantime Gordon Brown's close ally Ed Balls who voted for the exemption has put up some intriguing comments on his website. "This Bill gives my constituents greater protection and privacy by guaranteeing that the work I do on their behalf remains confidential....As for the proper public scrutiny of MP's expenses and allowances, I am absolutely clear that these should continue to be published as now. The Speaker has said they will continue to be published, that's the right thing to do and, frankly, I would like to see an amendment to that effect included in the Bill to put that beyond doubt" I hear that work is going on to draft and win support for precisely such an amendement. Watch this space Soon to be king 18 May 07, 01:45 PM The king is not quite dead. Long live the man who's soon to be king. It may not slip off the tongue but that is a summary of the curious and unprecedented constitutional position we're in for the next 39 days. It would not, of course, be considered so odd in many other countries. Gordon Brown will benefit from the luxury - not granted to any of his predecessors - of weeks to think and plan whilst not having to campaign for the job. His campaign manager - Jack Straw - says it's a welcome constitutional innovation. His close ally and friend Alastair Darling suggests that he would welcome a return to PM's coming and going within a day. This reflects his frustration that the government's been drifting pretty much ever since last September when Tony Blair publicly announced he'd be gone by the summer. I suspect that the public will only care if there's a crisis in the next six weeks. This won't stop the Tories trying to make them care and to suggest either that there's disarray or that Gordon Brown should be blamed for any unpopular decision taken in this period. Watch for them to make a fuss about hospital closures. At the end of "ever so 'umble" Gordon's first week he can feel satisfied that he has proved wrong those who thought he couldn't hack the top job. He's looked authoritative, comfortable and more at ease at himself than in the past. On the other hand he's neither sparkled nor unveiled a memorable message. The question is can he and will he do it in six weeks time? 17 May 07, 12:58 PM I have a real sense this morning that change is in the air. The cast list of players on the political stage has altered overnight. It is not just that Gordon Brown has been confirmed and will soon speak as "our next prime minister" and will promise to rebuild the public's trust in government. Alex Salmond will, I believe, command headlines way beyond Holyrood as he uses his status as first minister to speak out on a wide range of issues "for the people of Scotland". Another character who will soon feature regularly on our screens is Nicolas Sarkosy - France's flamboyant and aggressive new president. And, as if to make the point, the faces of the soon-to-be-past, Tony Blair and George W. Bush, will feature today at their last joint news conference at the White House. Power is passing from those whose views were forged in the tragedy of 9/11 to the post 9/11 generation. : That is why, I suspect, the Cameroons have tried to get in on "the change" story by picking a fight over grammar schools. It's official. It's Brown 16 May 07, 08:18 PM It's official. Gordon Brown is our next Prime Minister. When nominations were published at 6 pm tonight he was one name short of the number needed to avoid a contest. Tonight he has that name. It is Andrew Mackinlay MP. So much for the idea that Brown wanted a contest. He could have ensured that there was one but insisted that it "would be dishonest" to lend votes to a possible challenger. So, he has seen off putative challenges by Alan Johnson, John Reid, Charles Clarke, David Milliband, Michael Meacher and, finally, John McDonnell. The job he's longed for is his. The contest and the debate which many in the party longed for is not to be. 16 May 07, 12:44 PM After all the decades of protest, all the chilling warnings about the break up of Britain and all the sound and fury - was this it? Today Alex Salmond stormed Scotland's citadels of power and pledged to deliver "compromise and concession". It's hard to imagine that slogan written on the banners of nationalists down the ages. Do not be fooled. This kinder, gentler, softer Salmond is not a different man from the feisty, aggressive political street fighter we've known for years. What's changed is his situation. Salmond now has real power where for years he and his party have had none. However, his power is constrained by the fact that the Scottish Parliament is wholly unlike its Westminster big brother where the "winner takes it all". The SNP now have the job titles, the ministerial cars and the staff but they can pass laws only with the co-operation of their political rivals. Finally, the SNP leader knows he's come to power not thanks to the rise of nationalism but thanks to the decline of Scottish Labour. Today was just a first step on a long journey that might transform the SNP into a party of power, may well lead to the Scottish Parliament gaining new powers and might end in Scottish independence. It might, on the other hand, all end in tears. Its sheer unpredictability is what makes it so interesting. The prize for the speech of the day goes not to Salmond but to the leader of the Scottish Tories, Annabel Goldie. In a short, witty and dignified speech she addressed Alex Salmond's wife and sister who were watching from the public gallery. This formidable Scot declared "If you're not around to keep this man in check, there's another woman who certainly will". 16 May 07, 10:35 AM I have come to witness a moment of history. It is the moment when a party of protest becomes a party of power. The moment when a man who was once expelled by his party and later said "if nominated, I'll decline. If drafted, I'll defer. And if elected, I'll resign" takes them into office. The moment when for the first time in Britain, nationalist politicians get to govern. It will also see the start of an experiment in what some call the "new politics" - post-PR, post-coalition, minority government where every vote rests of a political wing and a prayer. Alex Salmond's elevation to Scottish first minister is genuinely historic. His failure to gain a majority or to form a coalition means that he cannot - in the short term at least - get even close to the SNP's dream of independence. He may not even be able to implement many of his domestic policy promises. However, he will have the title, the trappings of office, the staff, the money and the platform to prove that Scotland can be run in a different way. If he succeeds Britain could be changed for good. What a difference a day makes 11 May 07, 06:41 PM Yesterday we saw the master showman. Today we saw his long suffering understudy. It's lucky that Gordon Brown had decided to highlight his lack of interest in presentation since his launch was marred by the most basic of errors - the cameras couldn't get a clear view of his face. The contrast though was about much more than style and will matter much more if Gordon brown means what he said today. He has pledged to govern in a different way. Parliament would have more power to hold both the government and erring ministers to account. The public would be given greater say over the services they use. In the new kind of politics which Brown is promising, government would be "humble enough to know its place" Mr Brown is trying to pull off quite a trick. He is declaring that an old familiar face can lead a completely new style of government. He is arguing not just that Labour can and should change in office but that he can and will change too. In the days to come we will get a sense of how far that is possible The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites How this weblog works Want to publish this banner on your own blog? Cost of the link Splitting the Home Office Class war hots up So close and yet... Lord Tebbit criticises Cameron Broadcast: 22 May 2007 Brown will be Labour leader Broadcast: 17 May 2007 Brown launches leadership bid Broadcast: 11 May 2007 Blair names departure date Broadcast: 10 May 2007 SNP largest party at Holyrood Broadcast: 04 May 2007 The above links are to five of Nick's recent TV & Radio reports. You will need Windows Media or Real Player to watch/listen ( "Nick Robinson thinks the grammar school row is intended to capitalise on the sense of 'change' in political circles." View from the North "The row over the grammar school non-issue will no doubt damage the Tories in the opinion polls..." "My husband took me to a show - Tony Blair's last huzzah... Everyone got very excited when Nick Robinson appeared." Wife in the North "I am surprised as I wander around the U.S. blogosphere at how relatively lightly Blair gets off... Many Brits are not so kind." Above you can find links to blogs that have linked to Nick recently. You can find more World Have Your Say Headlines for your site Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/programmes/the_daily_politics | Daily Politics weekday on BBC2 1200-1230 (Weds 1130-1300) and all the time on this website Prime Minister's Questions Podcast Subscribe once and receive a shiny video digest of PMQs and our analysis - every Wednesday. Get a wallchart of all the PMs Friday Polls - full results YOUR FAVOURITE PRIME MINISTER Watch the video biographies and vote for your favourite WE ASK THE QUESTIONS... ...and you win the sought-after mugs in our political quizzes! Who should make up Team Brown? You decide! Andrew Neil is on tour taking the temperature of the nation Take part, or download the Panel to peruse at home
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6714557.stm | Welsh prelate joins abortion row news when you want it Also in the news Saturday, 2 June 2007, 12:15 GMT 13:15 UK prelate joins abortion row The archbishop said MPs defending abortion should not ask for communion Catholic MPs who vote in favour of abortion should not put themselves forward for communion, the Catholic Archbishop of Cardiff has said. Peter Smith backed the stand made by the head of Catholics in Scotland, Cardinal Keith O'Brien, who questioned pro-abortion MPs' rights to communion. He said the cardinal's words reflected "the general teaching of the church". Archbishop Smith said he would not bar abortion supporters from communion, but advised them not to ask for it. If a Catholic politician manifestly, clearly goes against the church's teaching, then they ought to remove themselves from receiving communion Peter Smith, Archbishop of Cardiff "The church's law is quite clear," the archbishop told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "A priest or bishop is not permitted to refuse communion unless it is quite clear that the person has been excommunicated or there is a very public rejection of church teaching. But he went on: "The pastoral reality is, as the Pope has said recently in Mexico, that if a Catholic politician manifestly, clearly goes against the church's teaching, then they ought to remove themselves from receiving communion, because it would be a cause of great scandal." Archbishop Smith rejected arguments that MPs had to represent a larger constituency, including people whose views on abortion were at odds with the Catholic Church. "A politician in these circumstances has a real difficulty, which I can appreciate," he said. "But I would say that, because at the end of the day this is a question of a fundamental human right to life - which we all have and on which all other rights are based - if a politician said 'I must go along with the majority view of my constituents' then he ought to consider his position both as a Catholic and a politician." A spokesman for the Catholic Church in Scotland described the archbishop's comments as both "heartening and encouraging". He added that the archbishop's endorsement of Cardinal O'Brien added to many other positive responses received from around the world in the past couple of days, from both within and outside the Catholic community. sounds abortion warning 31 May 07 | Scotland Increase in abortions in Scotland 29 May 07 | Scotland Cardinal makes environment plea 08 Apr 07 | Scotland Religion and Ethics: Abortion Religion and Ethics: Christianity Scottish Catholic Media Office The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Blair in moderate Muslims appeal 'More inquiries' in honours probe Nato condemns Putin missile vow MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? and
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/default.stm in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:23 GMT 21:23 UK Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Politicians must listen harder to the "calm voice of moderation and reason" of most Muslims, Tony Blair says. Full text: Blair speech on Islam Teaching of Islam is 'out-dated' 'More inquiries' in honours probe The Crown Prosecution Service asks cash-for-honours probe police to "undertake further inquiries". Nato condemns Putin missile vow Nato condemns Russia's threat to aim weapons at Europe over the planned US missile defence shield. Empty school places top 758,000 MP calls for abortion counselling Inspection blitz on NHS hygiene Litvinenko demand foolish - Putin Ill Prescott remains in hospital Brown pledge to protect liberties ALSO IN THE NEWS Commons Diary: Tony Blair is not short of job offers, apparently Enter a full postcode Or find by area Yorkshire & the Humber Labour deputies, Tory grammars and return of a British obsession Who should be in Gordon Brown's team? Send us your choices Six days of war, 40 years of conflict - the impact of 1967 VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Blair attends Islamic event Moderate Muslim teaching urged Brown plans anti-terror laws Deputy PM Prescott in hospital More Video / Audio News Local Labour parties 'back Benn' Tenders invited for eco-villages MP slams 'absurd' schools policy Call for dentists' NHS-work quota Blair and Merkel meet before G8 Peers attack nuclear waste plans Thousands attend poverty protest Welsh prelate joins abortion row Brown stresses 'listening Labour' Pupil knife search move ruled out Former MLAs collect nearly £500k Archbishop attacks assembly power In depth: The Blair Years Who's who: Shadow cabinet Who's who: Lib Dem front bench BBC Freedom of Info blog Brown plans new anti-terror laws Welsh prelate joins abortion row Blair push for climate progress The highs and lows of public opinion during 10 years as PM Whose idea was it anyway? Mike Baker reveals all Are you aged 16-22 and want to appear on BBC Question Time? ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC and
