http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/nyregion/30education.html?ex=1338177600&en=e935ea8ea0756508&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs DIANA JEAN SCHEMO Published: May 30, 2007 To review with her class of fifth graders the tapestry of reasons Europeans came to America, Cheryle Hodges clicks on a mouse that brings a roly-poly disc jockey to a screen at the front of the classroom here at Harrison Road Elementary. He throws up his hands in time with the music, a move the children instantly mimic, as they call out the refrain he launches: “Money, Souls and Soil.” In less than two minutes, the rap mentions cash crops of sugar and tobacco, the missionary drive and the push for land that propelled colonialism — all facts the children are expected to know for state standardized exams in social studies. The teacher picks up on another lyric, noting European powers that dominated exploration of North America — a point the children are also expected to know. “The kids are so into the video games,” Ms. Hodges, a veteran teacher of 27 years, said as the children watched a cartoon character named Mr. Bighead, who switched hats rapid-fire to portray the British, French and Spanish perspectives on the colonies. “We have to entertain them, or we lose them.” The clips emanate from a purple plastic box, known as a COW, for Curriculum on Wheels. They are the brainchild of Neil Bush, brother of the president, who is president of Ignite! Learning. The company has sold its science and social studies curriculums, aimed mostly at middle school grades, to 2,300 of the nation’s 85,000 public schools, and is seeking to expand its business to China, Japan, South Korea and the Middle East. Mr. Bush’s curriculum coordinates with both the standards movement sweeping states and its national embodiment, which requires all children 8 to be tested each year in reading and math, and once in science. Some educators have criticized Mr. Bush for using his brother’s law to market his product. His mother, Barbara, also rankled some philanthropists last year when she donated an undisclosed sum to a relief fund for victims of Hurricane Katrina on the condition that some of the money be spent to buy COWs for the Houston schools that had taken in victims. In a recent interview in Washington, Mr. Bush said he had not lobbied for business through his connections to President Bush. “We have a very strict policy of having no interface with any agency of the federal government,” he said. To educators, though, a big question is whether a technology-based curriculum — Mr. Bush’s or any of a multitude of others — works. Inside each COW is a hard drive containing a year’s worth of social studies or science lessons done in short cartoons, songs and occasional straight narration. The lessons are devised to match the standards in many states, and the company is working on a math curriculum. Mr. Bush said his curriculum made social studies and science more accessible. “Middle schools use 19th-century technologies to teach 21st-century kids,” he said. “Textbooks honestly have failed middle school children. They rely on children’s ability to read, and they’re boring.” Mr. Bush said he began the business with no experience in pedagogy or software development. His only real experience, he said, was as a boy with dyslexia. Teachers once told his mother that Neil, then in the seventh grade, would probably never graduate from St. Albans, the Washington prep school that he did, ultimately, complete. A recent extensive study of educational software by the federal Education Department, which looked at 15 reading and math courses used by nearly 9,500 students in 132 schools, found that computer-based instruction, while expensive, had no effect on student achievement. (Mr. Bush’s curriculum was not studied.) Todd Oppenheimer, the author of a 2003 book, “The Flickering Mind: The False Promise of Technology in the Classroom and How Learning Can Be Saved,” said the worth of computerized instruction depended on how it was used and how much it spurred inquiry. “To what extent does the software elaborate and open up academic exploration, and to what extent does it narrow it down, regiment it and standardize it?” he asked. “If it’s in the first category, it’s possibly good. If it’s in the second category, it’s more than likely bad.” Classrooms here in Spotsylvania are participating in a study that will test whether children using the COWs do better on the state exams than those not using them. Joseph Berger is on vacation. A Microsoft Alumnus Shares His Good Fortune Seeing No Progress, Some Schools Drop Laptops U.S. Limits Access to Student Loan Database Computer Science Takes Steps To Bring Women to the Fold Computers and the Internet Teachers and School Employees Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Op-Ed Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Go, Eat, You Never Know Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq off Times delivery.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/education/31dayton.html?ex=1338264000&en=90a522a02463245a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Ohio left, and Arrick Greene graduated Wednesday from 2007 , May 30 — The 32 students who graduated from on Wednesday evening were mostly from low-income families. Few of their parents went to college. Skip to next paragraph teaches science at the academy. is the principal of Budget cuts may force the school to change its structure. &#147;For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,&#148; Ms. Hennessey says. But every member of the graduating class, the school’s first, will attend college in the fall on the strength of their academic achievements and $2 million in scholarship offers, a remarkable success story in a school district plagued by budget shortfalls and challenges endemic to urban schools. That success, however, may not be enough to save the experimental public high school. Voters rejected a school tax levy on May 8, forcing the school district to cut $30 million from its budget. That could result in the academy’s reverting to a more traditional model. With more than 200 layoffs planned in the district, many of the teachers who have developed the academy’s curriculum through trial and error are likely to lose their jobs to teachers with more experience because the teachers’ union requires layoffs to be made according to seniority. Some positions would probably be eliminated. “For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,” said Judy Hennessey, who resigned as superintendent of the affluent school district in nearby Oakwood to become principal of the academy, which has 225 students who are required to begin taking college-level courses by their junior or senior year. The school, which is in an office building owned by the University of Dayton, was founded and operated in part with support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the KnowledgeWorks Foundation, based in Cincinnati. Some supporters want to convert the academy into a charter school, which would free it from dealing with the teachers’ union and help it retain its staff. The student-teacher ratio at the academy is 14 to 1, compared with the district average of 33 to 1, Ms. Hennessey said. who is speaker of the Ohio House and whose district includes the academy, said he was willing to sponsor a bill allowing it to become a charter school if the teachers’ union does not exempt the academy from layoffs by seniority. “I want them to keep this as part of the public system,” Mr. Husted said, “but if they’re unwilling to do that, I think preserving the school is more important.” Patricia Lynch, the president of the teachers’ union, was on the planning committee that formed the school but said it could not be exempt from cuts. “There are going to be setbacks in every school,” Ms. Lynch said. Thomas J. Lasley II, the dean of the School of Education at the University of Dayton and a founder of the academy, said the school and others like it were desperately needed. “If you’re going to educate urban kids, you’re going to need niche places,” Dr. Lasley said. “We can’t be losing this much intellectual capital and expect cities like Dayton to survive too long.” Away from the financing tug of war, the graduating students were ebullient. Jerusha Clark, 18, graduated with a diploma and an associate’s degree in liberal arts. She has enrolled at Mars Hill College near Asheville, N.C., majoring in pre-med biology. Kasandra Maxwell, 18, will study engineering at the University of Dayton. Other students, like Shaina Moore, a 16-year-old sophomore, hope the school continues untouched next year. Ms. Moore’s mother died in 1999, and her grandmother, who became her guardian, suffered from alcohol abuse, she said. Ms. Moore went into foster care and missed 100 school days in fifth grade in a downward spiral she worried might never end. With the help of her great-aunt and great-uncle, who became her guardians in 2001, she found her footing and has since blossomed at the academy. “I started out struggling my first year,” she said. “Now that I’m acquainted, I feel like it’s my second home.” Ms. Moore loves the language arts, she said, especially persuasive writing. She hopes to use her powers of persuasion as a probation officer to help people set their lives straight. Victory for Families of Disabled Students THE 2006 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS; Religious Voting Data Show Some Shift, Observers Say THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Scientists Endorse Candidate Over Teaching of Evolution Nonlawyer Father Wins His Suit Over Education, and the Bar Is Upset Teachers and School Employees Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Op-Ed Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Go, Eat, You Never Know Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/europe/31britain.html British Academics&#8217; Union Endorses Israel Boycott Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott 2007 LONDON, May 30 &#151; The main union representing 120,000 British college teachers voted Wednesday to endorse a Palestinian trades&#8217; union call for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions. The boycott resolution, approved at the inaugural congress of the University and College Union, called on British college lecturers to &#8220;consider the moral implications of existing and proposed links with Israeli academic institutions.&#8221; In theory, a boycott could sever academic contacts and exchanges of personnel between British and Israeli academic institutions. The union leaders insisted, though, that rules endorsed in a separate resolution earlier on Wednesday would forestall any immediate moves toward any action of that kind. The pro-boycott ballot, on a count of 158 to 99, according to a rough tabulation by boycott opponents present at the voting, was the first since the merger of two leading associations of higher education teachers last year. Under union procedures, the resolution approved Wednesday will be circulated among ordinary members. The rules also lay down a series of criteria to be met before any action is taken to enforce a boycott. Delegates at the gathering in Bournemouth, a southern seaside town, seemed to have ignored an appeal by union leaders to take a softer line. Sally Hunt, the union&#8217;s general secretary, said in a statement after the vote: &#8220;As I have made clear in the past, and as I reiterated on the floor of congress this morning, I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of U.C.U. members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union.&#8221; &#8220;Today&#8217;s motion on boycott means all branches now have a responsibility to consult all of their members on the issue, and I believe that every member should have the opportunity to have their say. The earlier motion means that any future calls for a boycott must pass key tests before a boycott can be implemented.&#8221; The ballot nonetheless drew sharp protests from an assembly of British Jewish groups and Israeli groups that had banded together to oppose a boycott. The coalition said in a statement that the vote represented &#8220;an attack on academic exchange which undermines the values of equality and freedom which ought to be fundamental to all British academic institutions.&#8221; Jeremy Newmark, chief executive of the Jewish Leadership Council, said the decision &#8220;damages the credibility of British academia as a whole.&#8221; &#8217;s Bar-Ilan University, who had managed a booth at the conference called &#8220;Meet Israeli Academia,&#8221; said it was &#8220;very disturbing to behold this form of singling out and discrimination happening in the U.K., which upholds itself as the cradle of fairness, freedom of speech and academic debate.&#8221; The resolution condemned what it called &#8220;the complicity of Israeli academia&#8221; in the occupation of Palestinian lands and said &#8220;passivity or neutrality is unacceptable, and criticism of Israel cannot be construed as anti-Semitic.&#8221; On the same day the resolution was approved, however, the presidents of four Israeli universities &#151; Ben-Gurion University, Hebrew University, Haifa University and the Technion &#151; joined with authors including Amos Oz and David Grossman in urging the Israeli defense establishment to end a ban that prevents Palestinian students from traveling from Gaza to the West Bank to study. Their announcement made reference to the consideration of a boycott by the British union. Briefing | Europe: Britain: Journalists Vote To Boycott Israeli Goods European Envoy Meets Hamas Official U.S. and Israel Differ on Contact With Palestinians British Court Affirms Order to Deport Cleric to Jordan &#x00bb; Rivera Autographed Page
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/nyregion/30yale.html Man Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say On the day of his arrest in Manhattan, Ralph Cucciniello, 55, on a video from a private investigator who had been contacted by an immigrant. 2007 NEW HAVEN, May 29 — It sounded good enough to be a dream come true, yet practical enough to be possible. The illegal Irish immigrants were eager to get their papers, and someone at Yale Law School was eager to help them. The process seemed simple and straightforward: file some paperwork, get a medical exam and be fingerprinted. Write a check for $5,000. Ralph Cucciniello at the Yale Law Clinic would take care of the rest. But there is no such thing as the Yale Immigration Law Clinic. Mr. Cucciniello, according to university officials and law enforcement authorities, was not a lawyer, but a research assistant with prior convictions on fraud charges who was running an extensive swindle out of the Yale Law School library. Over the last two years, the authorities say, he collected millions of dollars from at least 200 illegal immigrants and provided nothing in return. He was arrested on May 1 in Manhattan on charges of a scheme to defraud and grand larceny. The charges were filed many of the immigrants live there and because Mr. Cucciniello is accused of collecting some of the payments there. Prosecutors in Connecticut are also investigating the case. “He had Yale attached to his name; what more could we ask for?” said Donald, 33, who, like others who say they sent Mr. Cucciniello money, did not give his last name because he is in the country illegally. “Everything he did had a purpose. He played it all just like a lawyer.” Mr. Cucciniello, 55, who was released on his own recognizance, is scheduled to appear in court on Aug. 15. His lawyer, George Goltzer, declined to discuss the case on Tuesday. It is not clear exactly how Mr. Cucciniello obtained a university e-mail address and access to law school buildings. Jan Conroy, a spokeswoman for the law school, said that Mr. Cucciniello had never been an employee of the university, but that he had “on occasion served as a volunteer research assistant for a particular professor at the law school.” “He has not been authorized by the law school or the clinics to undertake any activities or to represent any clients,” Ms. Conroy said in a statement. “Upon learning of his arrest, the law school suspended his access to all law school facilities.” Ms. Conroy would not say which professor Mr. Cucciniello worked for, but said the research was not for any project directly related to the law school. A private investigator working for the immigrants who had paid Mr. Cucciniello identified the professor, who did not respond to telephone messages left on Tuesday. Like other law schools, Yale runs several law clinics staffed by students, including one that works on behalf of illegal immigrants trying to seek asylum and another that focuses on human rights violations. The Yale reputation was all Mr. Cucciniello needed to establish his credibility. Many of the well-off Irish immigrants who paid Mr. Cucciniello travel in the same social circles, and routinely assured one another that they were getting the right treatment from a bright assistant at one of the finest universities in America. They never suspected anything was awry until the news of Mr. Cucciniello’s arrest was reported in The Irish Voice this month. Several immigrants said he had his story worked out smoothly. He would explain over the telephone or via e-mail that he had set up the clinic on behalf of the law school dean and was using a loophole through the Department of Homeland Security to obtain green cards for people here illegally. Typically, he would summon the immigrants to a desk or office in the Yale Law School library, where he conducted extensive interviews, asking about everything from parking tickets to bank-account balances. He warned them that once they were issued green cards, the federal government would probably try to collect back taxes, perhaps as a way to prepare them to hand over more money down the road, the immigrants said. After directing them to complete several government forms, Mr. Cucciniello would say it would take several months for the government to run a background check. He would routinely call, the immigrants said, to update them on the progress of their case or ask for more details. And each time, he would begin the conversation with an official-sounding disclaimer: This conversation is protected by attorney-client privilege. Everything you say will be kept private. He reassured them that while the process was often long, it was progressing smoothly. For a Boy Stumbling Over Words, A Dog Is the Ideal Reading Partner LITERACY; At These Readings, Listeners Growl for More LITERACY; At These Readings, Listeners Growl for More LITERACY; At These Readings, Listeners Growl for More Reading and Writing Skills off Times delivery.
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/education/31schools.html Test Program in Schools Test Program in Schools 2007 announced yesterday that the city school system would spend $80 million over five years on a battery of new standardized tests to begin this fall for most 1.1 million public school students. The contract awarded to the testing giant CTB/McGraw-Hill will involve a significant expansion of exams, known as periodic tests, which monitor students&#8217; progress and are supposed to help predict how students will perform in the annual state exams. Mr. Klein&#8217;s announcement immediately rekindled the debate over whether such testing is emphasized too much or is even a useful tool for teachers. Pupils 8 will be tested five times a year in both reading and math, instead of three times as they are now. High school students, for the first time, will be tested four times a year in each subject. In the next few years, the tests will expand to include science and social studies. The test results will not be used for decisions on promoting teachers, whether they should be granted tenure, or how to grade schools, Mr. Klein said at an afternoon news conference. He called them a way to spot students who are falling behind. &#8220;I don&#8217;t think it means more pressure,&#8221; Mr. Klein said. &#8220;I think it means more learning.&#8221; He said the present testing regime was &#8220;too intermittent&#8221; to help teachers judge progress. The annual state exams 8 are used to measure a school&#8217;s performance in meeting requirements of the federal law. Under the law, schools that fail to show adequate yearly progress face potential penalties. Few major cities administer standardized tests as frequently as five times a year, several education experts said, and the move instantly drew criticism from the array of groups that have mobilized against the growing reliance on standardized tests that has accompanied the law. &#8220;It&#8217;s certainly more than any other city than I know of,&#8221; said Monty Neill, an executive director of the National Center for Fair and Open Testing in Boston, which is skeptical of standardized testing. &#8220;We&#8217;ve reduced schooling to preparing for bubble tests.&#8221; , the president of the United Federation of Teachers , said in an interview that many teachers say they already spend at least one day a week preparing for standardized tests. &#8220;Our issue is, how much teaching time is this eating up?&#8221; she said. &#8220;You&#8217;re spending a lot of time doing test prep and doing paperwork associated with test prep instead of teaching.&#8221; She added that it would be illegal for the city to use the tests to advance or slow the careers of teachers. In Chicago, a city whose public schools rely heavily on periodic testing, students 8 are tested three times a year, said Linda Bendixen, a spokeswoman for the Chicago public schools. A small but expanding group of high schools are tested four times a year, she added. Michael Casserly, the executive director of the Council of the Great City Schools in Washington, a lobbying group for large urban school systems, said such testing of elementary schoolchildren has become more common. &#8220;It&#8217;s been a growing trend for at least the last five to seven years,&#8221; Mr. Casserly said. &#8220;But it&#8217;s more unusual for cities to use interim tests at the high school level. New York is breaking some new ground on that front.&#8221; City Education Department officials said the exams would make teachers&#8217; jobs easier, giving them the ability to produce instant results and help pinpoint which students are falling behind. The tests are devised to be taken in a typical 45-minute class period, either online or using the traditional pencil and paper. Teachers will be able to draw from a bank of questions to customize the tests to their own curriculum, choosing from a mix of multiple choice or open-ended questions. The results for tests taken online will be available immediately, and for pencil and paper tests, the results will arrive in five days. Principals will then be able to analyze the data to better understand how students perform and what teachers can do to help them, city officials said. James Liebman, the chief accountability officer for the Education Department, said, &#8220;This gives us the capacity to hone in and figure out where the problems are.&#8221; Mr. Casserly, of the Council of the Great City Schools, said he has seen the tests used to good effect in some school districts. &#8220;They can be helpful and useful when they&#8217;re well designed, and when they yield good data that teachers know how to interpret, and where there&#8217;s follow-up and support,&#8221; he said. He said, however, that he had also seen disastrous results. Jane R. Hirschmann, of Time Out From Testing, a statewide group that has argued against standardized tests, said she believes that the curriculum in schools is being driven by the tests. &#8220;Now the whole city system is based on test prep and test taking,&#8221; she said. CIT/McGraw-Hill is one of the major sources of standardized tests and is a provider standardized exams. Previously, the city had a contract for periodic testing with The Princeton Review, better known for preparing students for exams for college and graduate school admissions. State Reading Scores Jump for Roosevelt 8th Graders EDUCATION; &#8216;Middle School Syndrome&#8217; Undergoes a Reversal THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Standardizing the Standards Eighth Graders Show Big Gain In Reading Test Teachers and School Employees
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/education/30census.html?ex=1338177600&en=a93fc2406e4b48dc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss New York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student 2007 New York again leads all other states in school spending per pupil, according to the latest census figures. Skip to next paragraph Education Spending, State by State Nationwide, public school districts spent an average of $8,701 per student on elementary and secondary education in the 2005 fiscal year, 5 percent more than in the previous year. New York, which also came in highest last year, spent $14,119 per student, followed by New Jersey at $13,800, Vermont at $11,838 and Connecticut at $11,572. The census found sharp regional disparities in raw spending but made no adjustment for local cost-of-living differences. Seven of the 10 states that spent the most per pupil were in the Northeast; all 10 that spent the least were in the West or the South. Utah ranked last, at $5,257, followed by Arizona ($6,281), Idaho ($6,283), Mississippi ($6,575) and Oklahoma ($6,613). Over all, public school systems spent $497 billion, compared to $472 billion the year before. About 60 percent of their $427 billion operating budgets was spent on instruction, with more than 9 percent allocated for operation and maintenance, 7 percent for administration and 4 percent for pupil transportation. The census reported wide differences by state in the proportion of school revenue raised by each level of government and how the money was spent. (Alaska led in the share from the federal government; Hawaii in the proportion from the state). When states were ranked by school spending as a percentage of personal income, Arkansas’ proportion was the highest, followed by Vermont, West Virginia, New Jersey and New York. In many states, local school districts showed sharp variations in spending per pupil. New York City, the nation’s largest school district, reported spending $13,755 per pupil, compared with $15,529 in New Rochelle. Nationwide, school systems spent nearly $42 billion on construction, with California and Texas, the two most populous states, accounting for almost one-third. Graders Show Big Gain In Reading Test 2 Candidates to Roll Out Domestic Proposals Schools Are Seeking Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid From Albany Seeing No Progress, Some Schools Drop Laptops Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Op-Ed Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Go, Eat, You Never Know Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt Education News - All Headlines left, and Arrick Greene graduated Wednesday from The success of an experimental high school in Dayton may not be enough to save it from a budget cut. Test Program in Schools The announcement of a battery of new standardized tests for students rekindled the debate over whether such testing is emphasized too much. British Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott The main union representing 120,000 British college teachers voted Wednesday to endorse a Palestinian trades’ union call for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions. A Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO Neil Bush, brother of the President of the United States, is behind a teaching method that is intended to bypass textbooks. Man Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say Officials say the man used the Yale University name to persuade illegal Irish immigrants that they were paying him to get their papers, but they received nothing. New York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student New York again leads all other states in school spending per pupil, according to the latest census figures. Spitzer Names a Panel to Improve Universities to Code of Conduct on Student Loans With Tuition Waiver, Maine Invests in Its &#8216;First People&#8217; Elite Colleges Open New Door to Low-Income Youths Education: ‘Middle School Syndrome’ Undergoes a Reversal Education: State Reading Scores Jump for Roosevelt 8th Graders New York’s Schools for Pregnant Girls Will Close SUNY Names Interim Chancellor New York Eighth Graders Show Gains in Reading Scores for Yonkers Students Drop on State English Test On Education: Immigration Raid Leaves Sense of Dread in Hispanic Students Court Upholds Suspension of Student in Video Case Legal Victory for Families of Disabled Students At Marymount Graduation, a Centennial, and a Farewell Evolution Opponent Is in Line for Schools Post Colleges Offering Campuses as Final Resting Places Principals Act in Plan to Reduce Bureaucracy Legislators Say Rutgers Logo Should Make Room for ‘NJ’ Students Gain Only Marginally on Test of U.S. History Pennsylvania Voters Reject Tax Plan to Finance Schools 100 Million but With a Catch Ivy League Crunch Brings New Cachet to Next Tier Study Finds College-Prep Courses in High School Leave Many Students Lagging California: Mayor Drops Effort for Schools On Education: A School Frees Low-Income Boys From the Pressures of the Streets Pace U. Leader, Beleaguered, Will Step Down U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Grade-School Girls, Grown-Up Gossip What happens when her weekly reader is People? The Few, the Proud, the Dartmouth-Bound James Wright, the president of Dartmouth, started a program to provide individualized college counseling to seriously injured veterans. Previous Articles in the Series Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » A low-income student at Amherst College reads a recent essay about his mother and brother and sister and all they have done for him. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years Middle School: The Critical Years Face Book: Leaders in Education For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California College Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Jersey Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University Albany Purchase Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Justices&#8217; Methods Are Criticized Ohio Journal: A Rocky Start for Nevada&#8217;s New Governor Outbreak of Eye Infections Puzzles Officials Near Misses Allowed Man With Tuberculosis to Fly TB Patient Was Advised Not to Fly Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run Bill Provisions Gain Wide Support in Poll U.S. Opposition to Iraq War at All-Time High, Poll Shows Bush Takes on Opponents of Immigration Deal A Devil in the Details, but Not the Constitution TB Patient Is Isolated After Taking Two Flights Engulfed by Climate Change, Town Seeks Lifeline Rocky Start for Nevada's Chief In Need of Income, Cemeteries Are Seeking Breathing Clientele With Tuition Waiver, Maine Invests in Its â€˜First People' TB Patient Says He Was Advised Not to Fly sell or research a car. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Find a world of reasons to go. Photos, fine art, books and more. Which gadget is getting all the buzz? What’s new on Broadway?
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/nyregion/30education.html?ex=1338177600&en=e935ea8ea0756508&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss A Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs - Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs DIANA JEAN SCHEMO Published: May 30, 2007 To review with her class of fifth graders the tapestry of reasons Europeans came to America, Cheryle Hodges clicks on a mouse that brings a roly-poly disc jockey to a screen at the front of the classroom here at Harrison Road Elementary. He throws up his hands in time with the music, a move the children instantly mimic, as they call out the refrain he launches: “Money, Souls and Soil.” In less than two minutes, the rap mentions cash crops of sugar and tobacco, the missionary drive and the push for land that propelled colonialism — all facts the children are expected to know for state standardized exams in social studies. The teacher picks up on another lyric, noting European powers that dominated exploration of North America — a point the children are also expected to know. “The kids are so into the video games,” Ms. Hodges, a veteran teacher of 27 years, said as the children watched a cartoon character named Mr. Bighead, who switched hats rapid-fire to portray the British, French and Spanish perspectives on the colonies. “We have to entertain them, or we lose them.” The clips emanate from a purple plastic box, known as a COW, for Curriculum on Wheels. They are the brainchild of Neil Bush, brother of the president, who is president of Ignite! Learning. The company has sold its science and social studies curriculums, aimed mostly at middle school grades, to 2,300 of the nation’s 85,000 public schools, and is seeking to expand its business to China, Japan, South Korea and the Middle East. Mr. Bush’s curriculum coordinates with both the standards movement sweeping states and its national embodiment, No Child Left Behind, which requires all children in Grades 3 to 8 to be tested each year in reading and math, and once in science. Some educators have criticized Mr. Bush for using his brother’s No Child Left Behind law to market his product. His mother, Barbara, also rankled some philanthropists last year when she donated an undisclosed sum to a relief fund for victims of Hurricane Katrina on the condition that some of the money be spent to buy COWs for the Houston schools that had taken in victims. In a recent interview in Washington, Mr. Bush said he had not lobbied for business through his connections to President Bush. “We have a very strict policy of having no interface with any agency of the federal government,” he said. To educators, though, a big question is whether a technology-based curriculum — Mr. Bush’s or any of a multitude of others — works. Inside each COW is a hard drive containing a year’s worth of social studies or science lessons done in short cartoons, songs and occasional straight narration. The lessons are devised to match the standards in many states, and the company is working on a math curriculum. Mr. Bush said his curriculum made social studies and science more accessible. “Middle schools use 19th-century technologies to teach 21st-century kids,” he said. “Textbooks honestly have failed middle school children. They rely on children’s ability to read, and they’re boring.” Mr. Bush said he began the business with no experience in pedagogy or software development. His only real experience, he said, was as a boy with dyslexia. Teachers once told his mother that Neil, then in the seventh grade, would probably never graduate from St. Albans, the Washington prep school that he did, ultimately, complete. A recent extensive study of educational software by the federal Education Department, which looked at 15 reading and math courses used by nearly 9,500 students in 132 schools, found that computer-based instruction, while expensive, had no effect on student achievement. (Mr. Bush’s curriculum was not studied.) Todd Oppenheimer, the author of a 2003 book, “The Flickering Mind: The False Promise of Technology in the Classroom and How Learning Can Be Saved,” said the worth of computerized instruction depended on how it was used and how much it spurred inquiry. “To what extent does the software elaborate and open up academic exploration, and to what extent does it narrow it down, regiment it and standardize it?” he asked. “If it’s in the first category, it’s possibly good. If it’s in the second category, it’s more than likely bad.” Classrooms here in Spotsylvania are participating in a study that will test whether children using the COWs do better on the state exams than those not using them. Joseph Berger is on vacation. &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. A Microsoft Alumnus Shares His Good Fortune Seeing No Progress, Some Schools Drop Laptops U.S. Limits Access to Student Loan Database Computer Science Takes Steps To Bring Women to the Fold Computers and the Internet Teachers and School Employees &#x00bb; De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Supreme Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity What I Think About Evolution Some Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/education/31dayton.html?ex=1338264000&en=90a522a02463245a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Ohio Clark, left, and Arrick Greene graduated Wednesday from May 31, 2007 , May 30 — The 32 students who graduated from on Wednesday evening were mostly from low-income families. Few of their parents went to college. Skip to next paragraph Jones teaches science at the academy. Hennessey is the principal of Budget cuts may force the school to change its structure. &#147;For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,&#148; Ms. Hennessey says. But every member of the graduating class, the school’s first, will attend college in the fall on the strength of their academic achievements and $2 million in scholarship offers, a remarkable success story in a school district plagued by budget shortfalls and challenges endemic to urban schools. That success, however, may not be enough to save the experimental public high school. Voters rejected a school tax levy on May 8, forcing the school district to cut $30 million from its budget. That could result in the academy’s reverting to a more traditional model. With more than 200 layoffs planned in the district, many of the teachers who have developed the academy’s curriculum through trial and error are likely to lose their jobs to teachers with more experience because the teachers’ union requires layoffs to be made according to seniority. Some positions would probably be eliminated. “For us to lose teachers would be catastrophic,” said Judy Hennessey, who resigned as superintendent of the affluent school district in nearby Oakwood to become principal of the academy, which has 225 students who are required to begin taking college-level courses by their junior or senior year. The school, which is in an office building owned by the University of Dayton, was founded and operated in part with support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and the KnowledgeWorks Foundation, based in Cincinnati. Some supporters want to convert the academy into a charter school, which would free it from dealing with the teachers’ union and help it retain its staff. The student-teacher ratio at the academy is 14 to 1, compared with the district average of 33 to 1, Ms. Hennessey said. who is speaker of the Ohio House and whose district includes the academy, said he was willing to sponsor a bill allowing it to become a charter school if the teachers’ union does not exempt the academy from layoffs by seniority. “I want them to keep this as part of the public system,” Mr. Husted said, “but if they’re unwilling to do that, I think preserving the school is more important.” Patricia Lynch, the president of the teachers’ union, was on the planning committee that formed the school but said it could not be exempt from cuts. “There are going to be setbacks in every school,” Ms. Lynch said. Thomas J. Lasley II, the dean of the School of Education at the University of Dayton and a founder of the academy, said the school and others like it were desperately needed. “If you’re going to educate urban kids, you’re going to need niche places,” Dr. Lasley said. “We can’t be losing this much intellectual capital and expect cities like Dayton to survive too long.” Away from the financing tug of war, the graduating students were ebullient. Jerusha Clark, 18, graduated with a diploma and an associate’s degree in liberal arts. She has enrolled at Mars Hill College near Asheville, N.C., majoring in pre-med biology. Kasandra Maxwell, 18, will study engineering at the University of Dayton. Other students, like Shaina Moore, a 16-year-old sophomore, hope the school continues untouched next year. Ms. Moore’s mother died in 1999, and her grandmother, who became her guardian, suffered from alcohol abuse, she said. Ms. Moore went into foster care and missed 100 school days in fifth grade in a downward spiral she worried might never end. With the help of her great-aunt and great-uncle, who became her guardians in 2001, she found her footing and has since blossomed at the academy. “I started out struggling my first year,” she said. “Now that I’m acquainted, I feel like it’s my second home.” Ms. Moore loves the language arts, she said, especially persuasive writing. She hopes to use her powers of persuasion as a probation officer to help people set their lives straight. (1 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Victory for Families of Disabled Students THE 2006 ELECTIONS: THE VOTERS; Religious Voting Data Show Some Shift, Observers Say THE 2006 CAMPAIGN; Scientists Endorse Candidate Over Teaching of Evolution Nonlawyer Father Wins His Suit Over Education, and the Bar Is Upset Teachers and School Employees (1 of 16) &#x00bb; De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Supreme Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity What I Think About Evolution Some Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/europe/31britain.html British Academics&#8217; Union Endorses Israel Boycott - Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott May 31, 2007 LONDON, May 30 &#151; The main union representing 120,000 British college teachers voted Wednesday to endorse a Palestinian trades&#8217; union call for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions. The boycott resolution, approved at the inaugural congress of the University and College Union, called on British college lecturers to &#8220;consider the moral implications of existing and proposed links with Israeli academic institutions.&#8221; In theory, a boycott could sever academic contacts and exchanges of personnel between British and Israeli academic institutions. The union leaders insisted, though, that rules endorsed in a separate resolution earlier on Wednesday would forestall any immediate moves toward any action of that kind. The pro-boycott ballot, on a count of 158 to 99, according to a rough tabulation by boycott opponents present at the voting, was the first since the merger of two leading associations of higher education teachers last year. Under union procedures, the resolution approved Wednesday will be circulated among ordinary members. The rules also lay down a series of criteria to be met before any action is taken to enforce a boycott. Delegates at the gathering in Bournemouth, a southern seaside town, seemed to have ignored an appeal by union leaders to take a softer line. Sally Hunt, the union&#8217;s general secretary, said in a statement after the vote: &#8220;As I have made clear in the past, and as I reiterated on the floor of congress this morning, I do not believe a boycott is supported by the majority of U.C.U. members, nor do I believe that members see it is a priority for the union.&#8221; &#8220;Today&#8217;s motion on boycott means all branches now have a responsibility to consult all of their members on the issue, and I believe that every member should have the opportunity to have their say. The earlier motion means that any future calls for a boycott must pass key tests before a boycott can be implemented.&#8221; The ballot nonetheless drew sharp protests from an assembly of British Jewish groups and Israeli groups that had banded together to oppose a boycott. The coalition said in a statement that the vote represented &#8220;an attack on academic exchange which undermines the values of equality and freedom which ought to be fundamental to all British academic institutions.&#8221; Jeremy Newmark, chief executive of the Jewish Leadership Council, said the decision &#8220;damages the credibility of British academia as a whole.&#8221; &#8217;s Bar-Ilan University, who had managed a booth at the conference called &#8220;Meet Israeli Academia,&#8221; said it was &#8220;very disturbing to behold this form of singling out and discrimination happening in the U.K., which upholds itself as the cradle of fairness, freedom of speech and academic debate.&#8221; The resolution condemned what it called &#8220;the complicity of Israeli academia&#8221; in the occupation of Palestinian lands and said &#8220;passivity or neutrality is unacceptable, and criticism of Israel cannot be construed as anti-Semitic.&#8221; On the same day the resolution was approved, however, the presidents of four Israeli universities &#151; Ben-Gurion University, Hebrew University, Haifa University and the Technion &#151; joined with authors including Amos Oz and David Grossman in urging the Israeli defense establishment to end a ban that prevents Palestinian students from traveling from Gaza to the West Bank to study. Their announcement made reference to the consideration of a boycott by the British union. &#x00bb; Start your 14-day free trial to TimesSelect Briefing | Europe: Britain: Journalists Vote To Boycott Israeli Goods European Envoy Meets Hamas Official U.S. and Israel Differ on Contact With Palestinians British Court Affirms Order to Deport Cleric to Jordan &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Jose Reyes Autographed Page Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/nyregion/30yale.html Man Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say - Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say On the day of his arrest in Manhattan, Ralph Cucciniello, 55, on a video from a private investigator who had been contacted by an immigrant. May 30, 2007 NEW HAVEN, May 29 — It sounded good enough to be a dream come true, yet practical enough to be possible. The illegal Irish immigrants were eager to get their papers, and someone at Yale Law School was eager to help them. The process seemed simple and straightforward: file some paperwork, get a medical exam and be fingerprinted. Write a check for $5,000. Ralph Cucciniello at the Yale Law Clinic would take care of the rest. But there is no such thing as the Yale Immigration Law Clinic. Mr. Cucciniello, according to university officials and law enforcement authorities, was not a lawyer, but a research assistant with prior convictions on fraud charges who was running an extensive swindle out of the Yale Law School library. Over the last two years, the authorities say, he collected millions of dollars from at least 200 illegal immigrants and provided nothing in return. He was arrested on May 1 in Manhattan on charges of a scheme to defraud and grand larceny. The charges were filed many of the immigrants live there and because Mr. Cucciniello is accused of collecting some of the payments there. Prosecutors in Connecticut are also investigating the case. “He had Yale attached to his name; what more could we ask for?” said Donald, 33, who, like others who say they sent Mr. Cucciniello money, did not give his last name because he is in the country illegally. “Everything he did had a purpose. He played it all just like a lawyer.” Mr. Cucciniello, 55, who was released on his own recognizance, is scheduled to appear in court on Aug. 15. His lawyer, George Goltzer, declined to discuss the case on Tuesday. It is not clear exactly how Mr. Cucciniello obtained a university e-mail address and access to law school buildings. Jan Conroy, a spokeswoman for the law school, said that Mr. Cucciniello had never been an employee of the university, but that he had “on occasion served as a volunteer research assistant for a particular professor at the law school.” “He has not been authorized by the law school or the clinics to undertake any activities or to represent any clients,” Ms. Conroy said in a statement. “Upon learning of his arrest, the law school suspended his access to all law school facilities.” Ms. Conroy would not say which professor Mr. Cucciniello worked for, but said the research was not for any project directly related to the law school. A private investigator working for the immigrants who had paid Mr. Cucciniello identified the professor, who did not respond to telephone messages left on Tuesday. Like other law schools, Yale runs several law clinics staffed by students, including one that works on behalf of illegal immigrants trying to seek asylum and another that focuses on human rights violations. The Yale reputation was all Mr. Cucciniello needed to establish his credibility. Many of the well-off Irish immigrants who paid Mr. Cucciniello travel in the same social circles, and routinely assured one another that they were getting the right treatment from a bright assistant at one of the finest universities in America. They never suspected anything was awry until the news of Mr. Cucciniello’s arrest was reported in The Irish Voice this month. Several immigrants said he had his story worked out smoothly. He would explain over the telephone or via e-mail that he had set up the clinic on behalf of the law school dean and was using a loophole through the Department of Homeland Security to obtain green cards for people here illegally. Typically, he would summon the immigrants to a desk or office in the Yale Law School library, where he conducted extensive interviews, asking about everything from parking tickets to bank-account balances. He warned them that once they were issued green cards, the federal government would probably try to collect back taxes, perhaps as a way to prepare them to hand over more money down the road, the immigrants said. After directing them to complete several government forms, Mr. Cucciniello would say it would take several months for the government to run a background check. He would routinely call, the immigrants said, to update them on the progress of their case or ask for more details. And each time, he would begin the conversation with an official-sounding disclaimer: This conversation is protected by attorney-client privilege. Everything you say will be kept private. He reassured them that while the process was often long, it was progressing smoothly. “Every time you had a question, he had an answer; he always seemed to care what was going on,” said Andrew, 25, who was living several months before he met Mr. Cucciniello. “There were all kinds of specific little bits and pieces that sounded too exact to be made up. Every time I might have gotten nervous, there was a reason not to be.” For instance, several immigrants said, Mr. Cucciniello routinely assured them that he had spoken with government officials and they were free to travel outside of the country — often to — and return to the United States without a problem. In several instances, it worked, though it was likely only a lucky coincidence. But after one young man who was “in the program,” as the immigrants called Mr. Cucciniello’s “clinic,” was detained at the border in Canada this year, others became suspicious. One woman contacted Olwyn Triggs, an Irish immigrant who runs a New York private investigation firm, P. I. Network, who quickly uncovered Mr. Cucciniello’s criminal record. In 1996, he was convicted of defrauding several people in Passaic, N.J., of more than $250,000 in a business scheme. Newspaper reports show that he was sentenced to 30 years in prison, but did not serve time because he was placed in the federal witness protection program. He was convicted and indicted on other charges of fraud dating to the 1970s, but apparently did not serve any time. Ms. Triggs contacted officials in the New York Police Department and the Manhattan district attorney’s office, which filed charges against Mr. Cucciniello on May 2. “Clearly he knew to prey on a group of people who could afford this and would do almost anything to get it,” Ms. Triggs said. In recent weeks, Ms. Triggs spent hours trying to persuade the immigrants to tell law enforcement officials about their dealings with Mr. Cucciniello, but many are loath to do so for fear of being deported. “Now I feel like my head has a flashing light on it screaming ‘I’m illegal’ ” said one 32-year-old man who lives in Florida. “And I tried to pay a lot of money and do a lot of things so that wouldn’t be true anymore.” &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Twist on the Old Dream: Looking to Ireland for Jobs A Great-Great-Great-Great Day for Ellis Island's Annie World Briefing | Europe: Poland Wants To Open A School In Ireland Dublin Journal; Now, the Barkeeps May Come From the Ends of the Earth &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Pigeons In The Park, 1953 Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/education/31schools.html New York City Expands Test Program in Schools - York City Expands Test Program in Schools May 31, 2007 announced yesterday that the city school system would spend $80 million over five years on a battery of new standardized tests to begin this fall for most 1.1 million public school students. The contract awarded to the testing giant CTB/McGraw-Hill will involve a significant expansion of exams, known as periodic tests, which monitor students&#8217; progress and are supposed to help predict how students will perform in the annual state exams. Mr. Klein&#8217;s announcement immediately rekindled the debate over whether such testing is emphasized too much or is even a useful tool for teachers. Pupils in Grades 3 through 8 will be tested five times a year in both reading and math, instead of three times as they are now. High school students, for the first time, will be tested four times a year in each subject. In the next few years, the tests will expand to include science and social studies. The test results will not be used for decisions on promoting teachers, whether they should be granted tenure, or how to grade schools, Mr. Klein said at an afternoon news conference. He called them a way to spot students who are falling behind. &#8220;I don&#8217;t think it means more pressure,&#8221; Mr. Klein said. &#8220;I think it means more learning.&#8221; He said the present testing regime was &#8220;too intermittent&#8221; to help teachers judge progress. The annual state exams in Grades 3 through 8 are used to measure a school&#8217;s performance in meeting requirements of the federal No Child Left Behind law. Under the law, schools that fail to show adequate yearly progress face potential penalties. Few major cities administer standardized tests as frequently as five times a year, several education experts said, and the move instantly drew criticism from the array of groups that have mobilized against the growing reliance on standardized tests that has accompanied the No Child Left Behind law. &#8220;It&#8217;s certainly more than any other city than I know of,&#8221; said Monty Neill, an executive director of the National Center for Fair and Open Testing in Boston, which is skeptical of standardized testing. &#8220;We&#8217;ve reduced schooling to preparing for bubble tests.&#8221; , the president of the United Federation of Teachers , said in an interview that many teachers say they already spend at least one day a week preparing for standardized tests. &#8220;Our issue is, how much teaching time is this eating up?&#8221; she said. &#8220;You&#8217;re spending a lot of time doing test prep and doing paperwork associated with test prep instead of teaching.&#8221; She added that it would be illegal for the city to use the tests to advance or slow the careers of teachers. In Chicago, a city whose public schools rely heavily on periodic testing, students in Grades 3 through 8 are tested three times a year, said Linda Bendixen, a spokeswoman for the Chicago public schools. A small but expanding group of high schools are tested four times a year, she added. Michael Casserly, the executive director of the Council of the Great City Schools in Washington, a lobbying group for large urban school systems, said such testing of elementary schoolchildren has become more common. &#8220;It&#8217;s been a growing trend for at least the last five to seven years,&#8221; Mr. Casserly said. &#8220;But it&#8217;s more unusual for cities to use interim tests at the high school level. New York is breaking some new ground on that front.&#8221; City Education Department officials said the exams would make teachers&#8217; jobs easier, giving them the ability to produce instant results and help pinpoint which students are falling behind. The tests are devised to be taken in a typical 45-minute class period, either online or using the traditional pencil and paper. Teachers will be able to draw from a bank of questions to customize the tests to their own curriculum, choosing from a mix of multiple choice or open-ended questions. The results for tests taken online will be available immediately, and for pencil and paper tests, the results will arrive in five days. Principals will then be able to analyze the data to better understand how students perform and what teachers can do to help them, city officials said. James Liebman, the chief accountability officer for the Education Department, said, &#8220;This gives us the capacity to hone in and figure out where the problems are.&#8221; Mr. Casserly, of the Council of the Great City Schools, said he has seen the tests used to good effect in some school districts. &#8220;They can be helpful and useful when they&#8217;re well designed, and when they yield good data that teachers know how to interpret, and where there&#8217;s follow-up and support,&#8221; he said. He said, however, that he had also seen disastrous results. Jane R. Hirschmann, of Time Out From Testing, a statewide group that has argued against standardized tests, said she believes that the curriculum in schools is being driven by the tests. &#8220;Now the whole city system is based on test prep and test taking,&#8221; she said. CIT/McGraw-Hill is one of the major sources of standardized tests and is a provider standardized exams. Previously, the city had a contract for periodic testing with The Princeton Review, better known for preparing students for exams for college and graduate school admissions. (2 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. State Reading Scores Jump for Roosevelt 8th Graders EDUCATION; &#8216;Middle School Syndrome&#8217; Undergoes a Reversal THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Standardizing the Standards Eighth Graders Show Big Gain In Reading Test Teachers and School Employees (2 of 16) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/education/30census.html?ex=1338177600&en=a93fc2406e4b48dc&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss New York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student - York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student May 30, 2007 New York again leads all other states in school spending per pupil, according to the latest census figures. Skip to next paragraph Education Spending, State by State Nationwide, public school districts spent an average of $8,701 per student on elementary and secondary education in the 2005 fiscal year, 5 percent more than in the previous year. New York, which also came in highest last year, spent $14,119 per student, followed by New Jersey at $13,800, Vermont at $11,838 and Connecticut at $11,572. The census found sharp regional disparities in raw spending but made no adjustment for local cost-of-living differences. Seven of the 10 states that spent the most per pupil were in the Northeast; all 10 that spent the least were in the West or the South. Utah ranked last, at $5,257, followed by Arizona ($6,281), Idaho ($6,283), Mississippi ($6,575) and Oklahoma ($6,613). Over all, public school systems spent $497 billion, compared to $472 billion the year before. About 60 percent of their $427 billion operating budgets was spent on instruction, with more than 9 percent allocated for operation and maintenance, 7 percent for administration and 4 percent for pupil transportation. The census reported wide differences by state in the proportion of school revenue raised by each level of government and how the money was spent. (Alaska led in the share from the federal government; Hawaii in the proportion from the state). When states were ranked by school spending as a percentage of personal income, Arkansas’ proportion was the highest, followed by Vermont, West Virginia, New Jersey and New York. In many states, local school districts showed sharp variations in spending per pupil. New York City, the nation’s largest school district, reported spending $13,755 per pupil, compared with $15,529 in New Rochelle. Nationwide, school systems spent nearly $42 billion on construction, with California and Texas, the two most populous states, accounting for almost one-third. (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Graders Show Big Gain In Reading Test 2 Candidates to Roll Out Domestic Proposals Schools Are Seeking Higher Taxes Despite Extra Aid From Albany Seeing No Progress, Some Schools Drop Laptops (3 of 16) &#x00bb; De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Supreme Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity What I Think About Evolution Some Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt Education News - All Headlines - Clark, left, and Arrick Greene graduated Wednesday from The success of an experimental high school in Dayton may not be enough to save it from a budget cut. New York City Expands Test Program in Schools The announcement of a battery of new standardized tests for students rekindled the debate over whether such testing is emphasized too much. British Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott The main union representing 120,000 British college teachers voted Wednesday to endorse a Palestinian trades’ union call for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions. A Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO Neil Bush, brother of the President of the United States, is behind a teaching method that is intended to bypass textbooks. Man Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say Officials say the man used the Yale University name to persuade illegal Irish immigrants that they were paying him to get their papers, but they received nothing. New York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student New York again leads all other states in school spending per pupil, according to the latest census figures. Spitzer Names a Panel to Improve Universities to Code of Conduct on Student Loans With Tuition Waiver, Maine Invests in Its &#8216;First People&#8217; Elite Colleges Open New Door to Low-Income Youths Education: ‘Middle School Syndrome’ Undergoes a Reversal Education: State Reading Scores Jump for Roosevelt 8th Graders New York’s Schools for Pregnant Girls Will Close SUNY Names Interim Chancellor New York Eighth Graders Show Gains in Reading Scores for Yonkers Students Drop on State English Test On Education: Immigration Raid Leaves Sense of Dread in Hispanic Students Court Upholds Suspension of Student in Video Case Legal Victory for Families of Disabled Students At Marymount Graduation, a Centennial, and a Farewell Evolution Opponent Is in Line for Schools Post Colleges Offering Campuses as Final Resting Places Principals Act in Plan to Reduce Bureaucracy Legislators Say Rutgers Logo Should Make Room for ‘NJ’ Students Gain Only Marginally on Test of U.S. History Pennsylvania Voters Reject Tax Plan to Finance Schools 100 Million but With a Catch Ivy League Crunch Brings New Cachet to Next Tier Study Finds College-Prep Courses in High School Leave Many Students Lagging California: Mayor Drops Effort for Schools On Education: A School Frees Low-Income Boys From the Pressures of the Streets Pace U. Leader, Beleaguered, Will Step Down U. of Texas Fires Officer Over Tie to Loan Company Prestigious Private Schools Settle Rights Suit by a Non-Hawaiian 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee Local Food 101, With a School as His Lab Grade-School Girls, Grown-Up Gossip What happens when her weekly reader is People? The Few, the Proud, the Dartmouth-Bound James Wright, the president of Dartmouth, started a program to provide individualized college counseling to seriously injured veterans. Previous Articles in the Series Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » A low-income student at Amherst College reads a recent essay about his mother and brother and sister and all they have done for him. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years Middle School: The Critical Years Face Book: Leaders in Education For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College University Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University University Albany State University Purchase State University Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Supreme Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Justices&#8217; Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity Interrogation Methods Are Criticized Ohio Misses Allowed Man With Tuberculosis to Fly Statehouse Journal: A Rocky Start for Nevada&#8217;s New Governor Outbreak of Eye Infections Puzzles Officials TB Patient Was Advised Not to Fly Stir in G.O.P. as Ex-Senator Moves to Run Bill Provisions Gain Wide Support in Poll U.S. Opposition to Iraq War at All-Time High, Poll Shows Bush Takes on Opponents of Immigration Deal A Devil in the Details, but Not the Constitution TB Patient Is Isolated After Taking Two Flights Engulfed by Climate Change, Town Seeks Lifeline Rocky Start for Nevada's Chief In Need of Income, Cemeteries Are Seeking Breathing Clientele With Tuition Waiver, Maine Invests in Its â€˜First People' TB Patient Says He Was Advised Not to Fly million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Find a world of reasons to go. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new in technology? Post a job online today! Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Get the latest business news
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/02/education/02massachusetts.html Massachusetts Governor Proposes Free Community Colleges - Governor Proposes Free Community Colleges June 2, 2007 BOSTON, June 1 &#151; Community colleges in would be free to all students within 10 years under a proposal by Gov. Deval Patrick. The plan would make Massachusetts the only state with no-cost community college. California&#8217;s system was free until 1984. The plan is part of a broader 10-year proposal Mr. Patrick, a Democrat, unveiled Friday in a commencement address at the Boston. It calls for universal prekindergarten, full-day kindergarten and extending the school day and school year. Every student&#8217;s education would extend two years beyond high school, either through vocational training or college. &#8220;There&#8217;s no other state that has universal free tuition,&#8221; said Jim Hermes, a senior legislative associate with the American Association of Community Colleges. &#8220;It would be a very significant move, given the needs of the workforce.&#8221; Mr. Patrick said problems in the state&#8217;s system included gaps in minority achievement and students who were ill-prepared for college and the workforce. The state has more than 20,000 unfilled jobs requiring applicants with at least an associate&#8217;s degree. &#8220;For centuries, we have been a leader in education because our forebears appreciated that education was about advancing civilization and securing our future,&#8221; Mr. Patrick said, adding: &#8220;If we rest on our laurels today, if we fail to take account of the changes upon us in the state and in the world, then catastrophe will befall us. And at unspeakable cost.&#8221; Mr. Patrick said he would appoint a committee of business, education, political and community leaders to figure out how to carry out his proposals and how much they would cost. Some analysts put the cost of all the education changes at $1 billion a year, and there is skepticism about whether and how the state could afford such change. But aides to Mr. Patrick said cost estimates were meaningless before details were worked out. Most of the proposed changes would require legislative approval. Tuition and fees at the state&#8217;s 15 community colleges cost an estimated $56 million to $70 million a year, said Michael J. Widmer, president of the Massachusetts Taxpayers Foundation, a nonpartisan economic research group. Jan Motta, executive director of Massachusetts Community Colleges, said the average student paid slightly more than $3,000 a year, nearly $1,000 more than the national average. Ms. Motta said that as welcome as free tuition would be, especially for a community college system long treated as subordinate to Massachusetts&#8217; better-known private and state colleges, such a change would require other measures. &#8220;We have to be looking at how do we accommodate the students and where is the classroom space and the faculty,&#8221; she said. Kay M. McClenney, director of the annual Community College Survey of Student Engagement, based at the University of Texas at Austin, said the proposal raised other questions, too. &#8220;Tuition and fees come nowhere close to addressing the cost of college, particularly for students from low-income backgrounds, particularly for students from places like California and Massachusetts where the cost of living is so high and students are often holding at least one and sometimes two or three jobs,&#8221; Professor McClenney said. &#8220;Would that cause me to say it&#8217;s a bad idea? No.&#8221; But, she suggested it might make sense to provide more assistance to poorer students and charge modest fees for those who can afford it. &#8220;Should we be making community college free for everyone,&#8221; she said, &#8220;or should we be making community college free for those who most need it?&#8221; (2 of 18) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Charged In Drug Ring That Sold To Students 36 Hours | Cambridge, Mass. National Study Shows Colleges in Need of Help M.I.T. Makes Yale Provost First Woman To Be Its Chief (2 of 18) &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/03Rschool.html?ex=1338523200&en=4edc7d5539dc533c&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Schools&#8217; Deep-Pocketed Partners - Pszenica for The Levin teaches, from left, Danielle Jimenez, Mary Lisa Escobar, Fernanda Moreno and Isabela Horzempa at New Lebanon School in Greenwich, Conn. June 3, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey » Laura Pedrick for The Wall Township, N.J., High School, Samantha Kreiss goes up a new climbing wall. IN those final weeks before summer vacation, when temperatures can soar into the 90s, parents at 5 of Greenwich’s 11 elementary schools without adequate air-conditioning could no longer watch their children wilt, along with the crayons, in the heat. So they approached the school board and air-conditioning was installed — but not at the expense of property taxpayers; the parents raised the money. Students in two other elementary schools in town, without the same deep-pocketed parents, had to wait, however. They were finally granted air-conditioning after town officials squeezed the upgrades into capital budgets financed by taxpayers. In the last decade, a growing number of parents, alumni and corporations have been donating private money to public schools for a wide range of school equipment, educational supplies, artists-in-residence and accouterments that go beyond the traditional PTA gifts and what may otherwise be outside the local school board’s spending plan. Some schools have used the donated money to provide basics, at a time when many districts are facing ballooning instructional costs coupled with taxpayer fatigue. Especially in areas like Long Island and Westchester, where voters rejected some school budgets and forced deep budget cuts, some schools have come to rely on parental contributions to nonprofit educational foundations created to finance extracurricular activities like the football team and the drama club. Other districts, including several in , have used educational foundations to help add frills: greenhouses and weather stations, climbing walls and film libraries, and in one case, a quilting machine. In Greenwich, school administrators had to set caps on how much donors could collectively give to a single school, all in the name of fairness. Now even that policy is being revisited after it became apparent how adept parents were at persuading school officials to waive the caps if the donations to an individual school were significant enough. District officials also noticed over time that donors did not always supply operating funds needed to make use of the gifts and maintain them in years to come. “There was a sense that the existing procedure may not be sufficiently achieving the goal of equity across schools, and air-conditioning in the schools was one example,” said Susan O. Wallerstein, Greenwich’s assistant superintendent for business services. In Greenwich, the debate over what schools “need to have” versus what would be “nice to have,” as Dr. Wallerstein put it, focused on air-conditioners and more recently, on music lessons, field trips, butterfly gardens and nifty classroom tools like smart boards. While it may be tempting to let private donors give to a favorite school, parents and policymakers are wrestling with the implications of accepting some of those gifts. In response to this concern, officials in many communities have created nonprofit foundations that serve all schools within a district, which Greenwich has now done with its Greenwich Alliance for Education. “My goal is to provide these opportunities and services so that all kids in town have opportunities for success, not just the privileged ones,” said Nancy Kail, the alliance’s chairwoman. As a recent example, the alliance has provided music lessons for pupils who otherwise might not be able to develop the skills needed to participate later in the high school band. Consultants estimate that more than 5,000 such foundations exist nationwide, roughly equal to one out of every three school districts. The foundations seem to thrive best in well-off towns, whose residents are eager and able to support the schools, and in distressed cities that can attract traditional grants aimed at easing poverty. That leaves many districts muddling along without a strong financial partner. Take the local educational foundation in Middletown, N.J. It nearly folded in 2003 because it had too few volunteers to serve on its 10-member board. “We’ve struggled,” said Nancy Ryan, a mother of two who joined the board in late 2003 and up until recently served as its president. &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. State Reading Scores Jump For Roosevelt 8th Graders Transition Leader Is Named For Ailing Roosevelt Schools Only 6 Districts' Budgets Fail in Low Turnout SCHOOLS; Despite Tax Increases, A Wary Optimism on Vote &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit » Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says » » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/us/03graduation.html Diplomas Denied Over Graduation Cheers - Denied Over Graduation Cheers THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Published: June 3, 2007 GALESBURG, Ill., June 2 — A high school that had warned against undignified behavior at its graduation ceremony denied diplomas to five students after enthusiastic friends or family members cheered for them during the commencement program. Skip to next paragraph Kent Kriegshauser/The Register Mail, via Associated Press Gene Denisar, the schools superintendent in Galesburg, Ill., left, with Andrew Thomas Johnson, a senior, at graduation ceremonies in May. On May 27, Galesburg High School students and their parents were asked to sign a contract promising to act in dignified way. Violators were warned they could be denied their diplomas and barred from an after-graduation party. Many schools ask spectators to hold applause and cheers until the ceremonies end but few rigidly enforce the policy. “It was like one of the worst days of my life,” said Caisha Gayles, one of the five students, who officially graduated, but does not have her diploma to frame and hang on her wall. “You walk across the stage and then you can’t get your diploma because of other people cheering for you. It was devastating.” The school said the five students can still get their diplomas by completing eight hours of public service, answering phones, sorting books or doing other work for the district. School officials in Galesburg, a city of 34,000 in northwestern , said the policy was adopted after hoots, hollers and even air horns drowned out much of the ceremony in 2005 and nearly touched off fights in the audience when the unruly were asked to quiet down. “Lots of parents complained that they could not hear their own child’s name called,” said Joel Estes, the school’s assistant superintendent. “And I think that led us to saying we have to do something about this to restore some dignity and honor to the ceremony so that everyone can appreciate it and enjoy it.” In Indianapolis, public school officials this year began removing cheering parents and relatives. At one school, the superintendent interrupted the graduation program in the gymnasium last month and had the police remove a woman. “It’s an important, solemn occasion,” said Clarke Campbell, president of the Indianapolis Board of School Commissioners. “There’s plenty of time for celebration before and after.” Four of the five Galesburg students who were denied diplomas are black and one is Hispanic. Parents say cheers also erupted for white students but none of those students was denied a diploma. Principal Tom Chiles said administrators who monitored the 2,000-seat auditorium reported only disruptions they considered significant, and all turned in the same five names. “Race had absolutely nothing to do with it whatsoever,” Mr. Chiles said. “It is the amount of disruption at the time of the incident.” School officials said they would listen to appeals from students and parents. Ms. Gayles’s mother, Carolyn, said she would try to get her daughter’s diploma. She said the noise “was like three seconds: it was like, ‘Yay,’ and that was it.” Edward Yohnka, a spokesman for the American Civil Liberties Union , said Galesburg’s policy raised no red flags as long as it was enforced equitably. “It’s probably well within the school’s ability to control the decorum at an event like this,” Mr. Yohnka said. Another student who was denied a diploma, Nadia Trent, said: “It’s not fair. Somebody could not like me and just decide to yell to get me in trouble. I can’t control everyone, just the ones I gave tickets to.” &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Graders' Test Results Are Delayed in Connecticut Illinois School Superintendent Is Accused of $100,000 Theft Goodbye, Class. See You in the Fall.; More Teachers and Classes Are Staying Together for Multiple Grades National Briefing | Midwest: Illinois: Governor Proposes Education Initiative Families and Family Life Freedom of Speech and Expression &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/02/education/02educ.html?ex=1338436800&en=e36c7a92ddb52ba9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss U.S. Puts Limits on Lenders&#8217; Ties to Universities - Puts Limits on Lenders’ Ties to Universities June 2, 2007 The Education Department, criticized for lax oversight of , released proposed rules yesterday that would set new standards for universities and ban lenders’ marketing practices that have resulted, in some cases, in loan company payoffs to university officials. The 225-page package represents a change in direction by the department, which for years had ignored calls by its inspector general, Democratic lawmakers and even some loan-industry officials for it to be more aggressive in policing the $85 billion student loan industry. The rules would for the first time require universities to include at least three loan companies on any list of lenders they recommend to students and would ban many of the gifts and payments to financial aid officials that lenders have been offering to win student loan volume. The rules would bar everything from travel and entertainment expenses to providing staffing for college aid offices. They would modify the existing framework, which applies only to federally guaranteed loans, “to strengthen and improve the administration of the loan programs,” the proposal states. The agency said the rules had been sent to the Federal Register for a 60-day comment period. If approved, they would take effect next summer. Education Secretary Margaret Spellings created a task force in April to draw up the rules after an effort to win consensus on a similar package among representatives of students, lenders and academic institutions in a process known as “negotiated rule making” collapsed. In the past few months, investigations in Congress and in the states, led by Attorney General of New York, turned up an array of undisclosed relationships between universities and lenders, and conflicts of interest on the part of aid administrators. Some university officials who were promoting particular lenders had received stock on favorable terms, consulting payments or gifts from loan companies. Just this week, the Education Department’s own inspector general reported to Congress that the department had made “minimal” progress in dealing with complaints about abuse in the nation’s government-backed student loan program. Lenders by law have long been barred from offering inducements to gain loan applications. But what is an inducement is not entirely clear. In 2003, an assistant inspector general criticized the department for not giving any updated opinions about what kinds of incentives were barred since 1995, even though competition for loan business had escalated sharply since then. Department officials have said in the past that they did not have the authority to oversee many of these practices because they involved private loans — those not guaranteed by the government. They had said they wanted aid administrators and the loan industry to police themselves. The proposed regulations would still cover only federally guaranteed loans. They identify specific practices that would be barred, including “offering, directly or indirectly, any points, premiums, payments or other benefits to any school or other party to secure” student loan volume. Lenders who offer inducements run the risk of losing the federal guarantee on affected loans, under the proposal. The rules would also ban a college’s “access to a lender’s other financial products, computer hardware, and payment of the cost of printing and distribution of college catalogs and other materials at less than market rate.” They also make clear that lenders cannot try to get around them by offering benefits to “school-affiliated” groups, like alumni organizations. In addition, they would require that a university’s list of recommended or “preferred” lenders exclude any that provided incentives. Perhaps most importantly for students, universities would be required to explain how and why they recommend specific lenders and to ensure that all students, not just a few, receive the benefits offered by a lender on a preferred list. In explaining the need for the regulations on inducements, the department stated that “this guidance, and the general requirements of the law, may no longer be generally known and understood by lenders and other participants” in the federally guaranteed loan program, because the last guidance was provided in 1995. (1 of 18) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Rejects Criticism On Student Loan Scandal Education Dept. Official Who Oversaw Federal Student Loan Program Is Resigning Whistle-Blower On Student Aid Is Vindicated Education Dept. Starts Inquiry Into Possible Loan Conflicts (1 of 18) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit » Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says » » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/02/nyregion/02conn.html Bill to Reduce Tuition for Illegal Immigrants Passes in Connecticut - to Reduce Tuition for Illegal Immigrants Passes in Connecticut June 2, 2007 HARTFORD, June 1 — Illegal immigrants who graduate from high schools will be eligible for the resident tuition rate at the state’s public universities and colleges if the governor signs a bill that the Senate narrowly passed on Friday. Connecticut would join 10 other states, including New York, that allow illegal immigrants to pay the in-state rate that is available to other residents. Illegal immigrants now often pay twice as much to attend Connecticut’s taxpayer-supported colleges and universities. , said she would not decide whether to sign the bill until she sees its final language, which she had not done Friday. The Senate approved the bill, 20 to 15, after a three-hour debate in which several Republicans vigorously argued against the measure, saying that it would reward illegal activity. The debate in the House was similarly heated before the bill passed, 76 to 67, on May 17, with several Democrats joining most Republicans to vote against the measure. “What we’re doing here today is trying to incorporate some kids who, through no fault of their own, have arrived in our communities,” said Jonathan Harris, a Democrat from West Hartford who was the bill’s lead sponsor in the Senate. “They reside in our state. They’ve gone to four years of high school. They’ve demonstrated the acumen and the academic success.” In 2001, Texas was the first state to grant in-state tuition to illegal immigrants. New York passed a similar bill in 2002. Some state legislatures — including the one in Texas — have debated laws prohibiting in-state tuition rates for illegal immigrants. Last year, Arizona voters overwhelmingly approved such a ban. Like most states, Connecticut gives its residents a substantial discount on tuition at publicly supported colleges and universities. For example, the in-state tuition rate per semester at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain is $3,367. Out-of-state students pay $7,727. Backers of the bill said that the legislation would benefit about 250 of the 109,000 students enrolled in Connecticut’s public colleges and universities. A recent poll commissioned by The Hartford Courant showed that 53 percent of state residents supported the legislation and 41 percent opposed it. The poll, conducted in April and reported last month, had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage points. Much of the debate in the Senate on Friday focused on whether the bill would give illegal immigrants what opponents called “special benefits.” “It is a reward for illegal behavior that we should not be sanctioning,” said Daniel Debicella, a Republican from Shelton. “This bill makes a fundamental assumption that illegal Five amendments sponsored by Republicans, which would have restricted benefits for illegal immigrants on tuition and other matters, were easily defeated. As the debate came to a close, Senator Edward Gomes, a Democrat from Bridgeport, said the opponents’ concerns were misplaced. “These are not people who did something illegal,” he said. “These are people who deserve a chance to be a cornerstone in the community.” &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. Students Test Tolerance of the Affluent Stealth Students Test Tolerance of the Affluent World Briefing | Europe: France: Amnesty Deadline For Immigrants Senegalese Teenager in Deportation Fight Wins Right to Study in America &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/education/index.html?partner=rssnyt Education News - All Headlines - Pszenica for The Levin teaches, from left, Danielle Jimenez, Mary Lisa Escobar, Fernanda Moreno and Isabela Horzempa at New Lebanon School in Greenwich, Conn. When private dollars pour into public schools, questions about fairness can arise. Diplomas Denied Over Graduation Cheers By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS A high school that warned against undignified behavior at its graduation ceremony denied diplomas to five students after audience members cheered for them. U.S. Puts Limits on Lenders’ Ties to Universities By JONATHAN D. GLATER New Education Department rules would set new standards for universities and ban practices that have resulted in loan company payoffs to college officials. Massachusetts Governor Proposes Free Community Colleges Community colleges in Massachusetts would be free to all students within 10 years under a proposal by Gov. Deval Patrick. Bill to Reduce Tuition for Illegal Immigrants Passes in Connecticut Illegal immigrants would be eligible for in-state tuition at Connecticut’s public universities if Gov. M. Jodi Rell decides to sign a bill that narrowly passed the Legislature. Superintendent’s Speech Stirs Talk of Plagiarism Appeals Rejected in Cheating Scandal Teacher’s Novel, and Its Aftermath, Stir Up a Bronx School U.S. Data Show Rapid Minority Growth in School Rolls Columbia Settles Student Loan Case Sweep at School Turns Up a Trove of Electronic Contraband Ohio School Fears Cuts Will Rewrite Its Success Story New York City Expands Test Program in Schools British Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott Arkansas: School Financing Is Adequate, Court Rules Virginia: Liberty University Student Held Memo From London: Should British Academics, or Rock Bands, Boycott Israel? New York Is Top State in Dollars Per Student On Education: A Bush Brother Spreads His Vision of Computerized Teaching Programs Reading to a Partner That Listens on Command Man Posed as Yale Aide in Swindle of Irish Immigrants, Authorities Say Spitzer Names a Panel to Improve Universities to Code of Conduct on Student Loans With Tuition Waiver, Maine Invests in Its &#8216;First People&#8217; Elite Colleges Open New Door to Low-Income Youths Education: ‘Middle School Syndrome’ Undergoes a Reversal Education: State Reading Scores Jump for Roosevelt 8th Graders Grade-School Girls, Grown-Up Gossip New York’s Schools for Pregnant Girls Will Close SUNY Names Interim Chancellor New York Eighth Graders Show Gains in Reading Scores for Yonkers Students Drop on State English Test On Education: Immigration Raid Leaves Sense of Dread in Hispanic Students Court Upholds Suspension of Student in Video Case Face Book: The Few, the Proud, the Dartmouth-Bound Legal Victory for Families of Disabled Students At Marymount Graduation, a Centennial, and a Farewell Evolution Opponent Is in Line for Schools Post Colleges Offering Campuses as Final Resting Places Principals Act in Plan to Reduce Bureaucracy Legislators Say Rutgers Logo Should Make Room for ‘NJ’ Students Gain Only Marginally on Test of U.S. History Pennsylvania Voters Reject Tax Plan to Finance Schools When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? States want children to be a year older when they enter school. This could lead to better test scores — and more inequality. Forty years after getting pistol-whipped by Thomas Hardy, I am amazed the summer reading list still exists. Almost half of all undergraduates go to a community college, making the two-year experience as much the norm as not. Go to Special Section » A low-income student at Amherst College reads a recent essay about his mother and brother and sister and all they have done for him. A Model Middle School Winnie Hu reports on a nationally recognized model of a middle school that gets things right. Series: The Critical Years Middle School: The Critical Years Face Book: Leaders in Education For Students, Teachers and Parents Bring today's Times into your classroom or home with daily lesson plans, news quizzes, thematic crosswords and more. Featured Resource: Class Matters Find the right camp or school for your child In the Education Marketplace: View all Camp Listings View all School Listings Post Your Ad Now! Browse College and University Topics California Institute of Technology City College of New York City University of New York Fashion Institute of Technology Georgia Institute of Technology John Jay College of Criminal Justice Manhattan School of Music Massachusetts Institute of Technology New Jersey Institute of Technology North Carolina State University Rutgers, The State University State University of New York State University of New York at Albany State University of New York at Purchase State University of New York at Stony Brook Texas A and M University United States Air Force Academy United States Naval Academy United States Military Academy University of North Carolina University of Notre Dame University of Rhode Island University of South Carolina University of Southern California Xavier University of Ohio MOST POPULAR - U.S. Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia Romney&#8217;s Fortunes Tied to Business Riches Toxic Toothpaste Made in China Is Found in U.S. Gay Inmates to Be Granted Conjugal Visits in California Kevorkian Speaks After His Release From Prison A Legal Debate in Guantánamo on Boy Fighters Diplomas Denied Over Graduation Cheers Iraq Is Flash Point as 8 Democratic Rivals Clash News Analysis: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes News Analysis: With Korea as Model, Bush Team Ponders Long Support Role in Iraq » Diplomas Denied Over Graduation Cheers Bush Takes on Opponents of Immigration Deal A Growing Demand for the Rare American Imam Toxic Toothpaste Made in China Is Found in U.S. Rocky Start for Nevada's Chief TB Patient Is Isolated After Taking Two Flights Sweep at School Turns Up a Trove of Electronic Contraband TB Patient Says He Was Advised Not to Fly A Legal Debate in Guantnamo on Boy Fighters When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE What’s new on Broadway? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Find a world of reasons to go. Buy, sell or research a car. Photos, fine art, books and more. What movie should you see? The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/magazine/03kindergarten-t.html?ex=1338523200&en=57b814651683f3ff&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Standarized Testing - Education - Schools - Test Scores - Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Photo illustration by Chris Buck June 3, 2007 According to the apple-or-coin test, used in the Middle Ages, children should start school when they are mature enough for the delayed gratification and abstract reasoning involved in choosing money over fruit. In 15th- and 16th-century Germany, parents were told to send their children to school when the children started to act “rational.” And in contemporary America, children are deemed eligible to enter kindergarten according to an arbitrary date on the calendar known as the birthday cutoff — that is, when the state, or in some instances the school district, determines they are old enough. The birthday cutoffs span six months, from Indiana, where a child must turn 5 by July 1 of the year he enters kindergarten, to Connecticut, where he must turn 5 by Jan. 1 of his kindergarten year. Children can start school a year late, but in general they cannot start a year early. As a result, when the 22 kindergartners entered Jane Andersen’s class at the Glen Arden Elementary School near Asheville, N.C., one warm April morning, each brought with her or him a snack and a unique set of gifts and challenges, which included for some what’s referred to in education circles as “the gift of time.” After the morning announcements and the Pledge of Allegiance, Andersen’s kindergartners sat down on a blue rug. Two, one boy and one girl, had been redshirted — the term, borrowed from sports, describes students held out for a year by their parents so that they will be older, or larger, or more mature, and thus better prepared to handle the increased pressures of kindergarten today. Six of Andersen’s pupils, on the other hand, were quite young, so young that they would not be enrolled in kindergarten at all if North Carolina succeeds in pushing back its birthday cutoff from Oct. 16 to Aug. 31. Andersen is a willowy 11-year teaching veteran who offered up a lot of education in the first hour of class. First she read Leo Lionni’s classic children’s book “An Extraordinary Egg,” and directed a conversation about it. Next she guided the students through: writing a letter; singing a song; solving an addition problem; two more songs; and a math game involving counting by ones, fives and tens using coins. Finally, Andersen read them another Lionni book. Labor economists who study what’s called the accumulation of human capital — how we acquire the knowledge and skills that make us valuable members of society — have found that children learn vastly different amounts from the same classroom experiences and that those with certain advantages at the outset are able to learn more, more quickly, causing the gap between students to increase over time. Gaps in achievement have many causes, but a major one in any kindergarten room is age. Almost all kindergarten classrooms have children with birthdays that span 12 months. But because of redshirting, the oldest student in Andersen’s class is not just 12 but 15 months older than the youngest, a difference in age of 25 percent. After rug time, Andersen’s kindergartners walked single-file to P.E. class, where the children sat on the curb alongside the parking circle, taking turns running laps for the Presidential Fitness Test. By far the fastest runner was the girl in class who had been redshirted. She strode confidently, with great form, while many of the smaller kids could barely run straight. One of the younger girls pointed out the best artist in the class, a freckly redhead. I’d already noted his beautiful penmanship. He had been redshirted as well. States, too, are trying to embrace the advantages of redshirting. Since 1975, nearly half of all states have pushed back their birthday cutoffs and four — California, Michigan, North Carolina and Tennessee — have active legislation in state assemblies to do so right now. (Arkansas passed legislation earlier this spring; New Jersey, which historically has let local districts establish their birthday cutoffs, has legislation pending to make Sept. 1 the cutoff throughout the state.) This is due, in part, to the accountability movement — the high-stakes testing now pervasive in the American educational system. In response to this testing, kindergartens across the country have become more demanding: if kids must be performing on standardized tests in third grade, then they must be prepping for those tests in second and first grades, and even at the end of kindergarten, or so the thinking goes. The testing also means that states, like students, now get report cards, and they want their children to do well, both because they want them to be educated and because they want them to stack up favorably against their peers. Elizabeth Weil is a contributing writer for the magazine. Her most recent article was about lethal injection. (3 of 16) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. WAY WE LIVE NOW: 5-27-07; Standardizing The Standards 2 Candidates to Roll Out Domestic Proposals 2 Suspended for School Prank That Scared Pupils in Tennessee THE FUNNY PAGES: II: TRUE-LIFE TALES; Dance Fever (3 of 16) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit » Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says » » Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky THE NEW YORK TIMES GUIDE TO ESSENTIAL KNOWLEDGE Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
