http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30holi.html by Seymour Chwast are, each and every one of us, standing together on the threshold of National Surimi Seafood Month. June is also the month to celebrate papayas, iced tea, frozen yogurt, candy, soul food, steakhouses and applesauce cake. And whether you eat turkeys or simply admire them, prepare to party. June is Turkey Lovers’ Month, too. by Seymour Chwast At least 175 days a year are set aside in recognition of some form of food or drink. This puts a lot of pressure on the average eater. The week of July 15 alone starts with Tapioca Day, moves into Fresh Spinach Day, National Caviar Day and National Daiquiri Day, and ends with National Junk Food Day. Most food holidays didn’t spring from a spontaneous national outpouring of passion for, say, lunchmeat (Bologna Day is Oct. 24, by the way). Unlike Mother’s Day, which sprung from early anti-war efforts, National Crown Roast of Pork Day (March 7) has no political underpinnings. National Frozen Food Month (also in March) does not have the religious or cultural framework of Valentine’s Day. Although most elected officials will happily declare a food holiday when a trade association or commodity group asks, the proclamations don’t really mean much. Schools and banks do not close for National Vinegar Day (June 16). No, most food holidays are invented by people who want to sell more food. Bake for Family Fun Month, bless its heart, appears dedicated to preserving a meaningful ritual of the kitchen during February. That may well happen, but the holiday also benefits its sponsor, an association of companies that sell flour, butter and home baking equipment. So many food holidays can be hard to keep track of. There are almost two dozen dessert days, a number that begs for comparisons. Is National Sacher Torte Day bigger than Spongecake Day? Or are both kicked to the curb by National Butterscotch Pudding Day? (Sept. 19, if you’re planning ahead.) Food holidays can highlight gross injustice. Consider the sandwich category. Egg salad gets a week in April, but the peanut butter and jelly — clearly the more enduring American sandwich — has only a day (April 2). Nowhere are the holidays more unevenly distributed than among the fruits. Is it fair, for example, that raisins and figs get only a week each, but peaches have an entire month (July)? And peaches have nothing on apples, which get three months (September through November), with special break-out days for specific varieties. (Eat a Red Apple Day comes, inexplicably, on Dec. 1.) Blame seniority. Apple Week is one of the earliest food holidays. It began in 1904. By the 1970s, the week became a month, and by the 1990s the apple celebration had grown to three months, said Kay Rentzel, director of the U.S. Apple Association’s national apple month program. Apple sales jump by as much as 25 percent during the promotion, Ms. Rentzel said. Last year 5,550 retailers received certificates from Ms. Rentzel’s office for participating. “They may have special apple events that go on or they may have special signage in their store,” she said. “Some stores will do a baking contest. It’s a pretty exciting time.” Often, a commodity group looking to popularize a food holiday will wrangle a government official to help. Three years ago, the California Wine Institute convinced Gov. to declare September California Wine Month. It’s not the only food holiday he likes. Mr. Schwarzenegger declared July California Wild King Salmon Month and January California Dried Plum Digestive Health Month. But prunes and cabernet don’t need the governor’s blessing. In the loosely organized world of food holidays, nothing is really required for legitimacy. One could simply decide that Sept. 12 is Ropa Vieja Day and hope that a blogger somewhere picks it up and gives it some traction. For serious students of the genre, there is something of an authority: Chase’s Calendar of Events, 750 pages of notable birthdays, community happenings and holidays. If someone develops an idea for, say, Bread Pudding Recipe Exchange Week (May 1-7) and submits a form found in the back of the book, it will be considered for inclusion. Chase’s has standards, and not every proposal makes the cut. An organization has to agree to sponsor the holiday, or there has to be some sort of ongoing promotion or tangible enthusiasm for it, said Holly McGuire, who edits the book in Chicago. Shopper; Pies With Down-Home Magic, Yours for the Clicking Online, Not in Line, For Holiday Treats FOOD STUFF; Celebrating Connections Between Food And Holidays Holidays and Special Occasions your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30mini.html Summer&#8217;s for Soft-Shells, With for Soft-Shells, With may be no bad way to prepare soft-shell crabs. They contain so much moisture they’re just about impossible to overcook, and they cook so quickly they’re hard to undercook. have built-in crispness: that slightly leathery soft shell always has some snap, and it’s enhanced by any kind of cooking. And their flavor, though subtle, shines through in just about any preparation. Having said that, the near-universally favorite way to serve soft-shells is fried. Most people agree that the coating should contain some cornmeal, and that a quick dip in milk or eggs to thicken the coating and help it adhere is useful. When you put those fried crabs on bread, you have a riff on the New Orleans poor-boy. The specifics of this creation can be endlessly debated, but the fixings usually include lettuce, tomato and mayonnaise. Oddly enough, the true poor-boy is made on less-than-fabulous bread, labeled “French” or “Italian” in supermarkets. The sandwich is vastly improved by removing some of the mushy white crumb, and toasting what is left. (After a few tries using better bread, I began to understand the logic: the best baguettes are too tough to use for stout fillings like the crabs.) There’s not much cooking here. Sometimes crabs spatter, so it’s best to fry them in oil that’s not smoking hot. On the other hand, the shopping can be tricky. Most soft-shells are alive when they’re shipped, so look for crabs with some life in them. That means they will need some preparation to be ready for cooking. I suggest you ask the fishmonger to clean the crabs for you, because though the process is a quick and easy one, it’s not for the squeamish. (For one thing, it involves cutting off what amounts to the face.) It’s best to cook the crabs the same day this is done. At that point, you can hardly go wrong. 30 minutes 1 12- to 16-inch-long loaf supermarket French- or Italian-style bread, or 2 smaller loaves 1/2 teaspoon cayenne, or more Neutral oil, like corn or grapeseed, as needed 2 large soft-shell crabs, cleaned For garnish: mayonnaise, lettuce, tomato, hot sauce or lemon. 1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Split bread in half and remove some of the soft white crumb with your fingers. Toast bread lightly in oven, about 10 to 15 minutes. 2. Beat egg and milk together in a bowl; combine the cornmeal, flour, cayenne and a large pinch of salt on a plate. Put about 1/4-inch of oil in a deep skillet broad enough to accommodate crabs, and turn heat to medium. When oil is hot — a pinch of flour will sizzle — dip crabs in milk-egg mixture, then dredge in the cornmeal-flour mixture. Put in skillet; adjust heat so crabs bubble gently but not furiously in oil. 3. When bottom is nicely browned, 3 to 5 minutes, turn crabs and brown other side; crabs will be quite firm when done. 4. Serve on toasted bread, garnished as you like. NEW ORLEANS, GASTRONOMIC TRUTH ON THE HALF SHELL your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt is in the grips of a nefarious chicken-finger pandemic, in which a bland tasting foodstuff has somehow become the de facto official nibble of our young. restaurants have stopped selling bottled water as a way to reduce the environmental costs of manufacturing and transporting bottles of water. least 175 days a year are set aside in recognition of some form of food or drink. This puts a lot of pressure on the average eater. Bruni visits Katz’s Deli, a New York fixture since 1888. Summer’s for Soft-Shells, With There may be no bad way to prepare soft-shell crabs but when you put those fried crabs on bread, you have a take on the New Orleans poor-boy. Video: The of the Times Summer Breezes in, Sipping Barbera Red wine this summer? The panel samples the barberas from Asti and Alba. Interactive Feature: Wines of The Times An Earthy Mushroom Pasta Sauce With Piquant Cheese for an Earthy, Truffly Wine At Midday, You See All Types What is the point of a business lunch? Lunch in a restaurant, like good deeds, is best when it’s voluntary and anonymous. Saffron Power: Yellow, Yet Not Necessarily Mellow Saffron can be the most intimidating spice in your kitchen, but its power dictates a sparing hand. From a Pennsylvania Garden Patch, Down-Home Crocus Taste In parts of Pennsylvania Dutch country, any respectable cook making the local specialty, chicken pot pie, always uses a pinch of saffron. A Crowd-Pleaser of a Trip and a Book to Try at Home An exhibition on ice cream at the Farmers’ Museum in Cooperstown, N.Y.; a Finnish cheese called juustoleipa (YOO-sto-lay-bah); and a new Bowery kitchen. Three Menus and a Few Sure Things Lucky Eight is a small place with a big repertory spread across three menus. Frank Bruni explores the oddity of milk-fed poultry. Go to Blog » Eric Asimov spends some time reflecting on pinot gris wines. Go to Blog » The Monkey Bar reopens on Monday, Rayuela opens this week, Alex Garcia of Gaucho steak has another stove to tend and more. Recipe: Roasted Poussin With Braised Hearts of Romaine, Parmesan and Anchovy Recipe: Vegetable Paella With Wild Mushrooms Recipe: Saffron Almond Meringues Recipe: Pennsylvania Dutch Chicken Pot Pie Recipe: Fettuccine With Mushroom Ragù The food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, cooks (Warning: Contains images of violence to crabs.) Wines of The Times: Barbera d'Asti and d'Alba The panel found in a tasting of 25 barberas that the best seemed suspended on a teetering balance, pulled by bright fruit on one side and acidity on the other. New Jersey: Axia Taverna Long Island: Michaels at the Boardwalk Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards MOST POPULAR - STYLE De Gustibus: Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Work: Time Wasted? Perhaps It&#8217;s Well Spent At the Élysée, Seeing a New Camelot Proud: Southern Gothic: Ghosts Welcome Where to Draw the Tan Line Do the Math what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Buy, sell or rent a home. Continuous coverage of business news. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. What’s new in technology?
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30kids.html?ex=1338177600&en=a1322949d686a883&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss seems like such a wonderful concept when you encounter it for the first time as a parent. You go to a restaurant as a family, are seated and given menus, and the waitress cheerfully turns to your children and exclaims, “And these are for you!” Their own special menus — kids’ menus! Sometimes these are little laminated things, peewee facsimiles of what Mom and Dad are holding. Sometimes these are placemats that not only tell you what foods are available but also contain mazes and word-search puzzles. do you think of the children’s menu? Evan Sung for customers dining from the children's menu at Landmarc at the Time Warner Center. Above, Nicolas Salas. No matter what, the menu offers chicken fingers with French fries. And typically, as you go down the list, macaroni and cheese, a hot dog, a hamburger, grilled cheese and some kind of pizza. Early in my tenure as a parent, I thought children’s menus were the greatest thing, a quantum leap forward in the human condition. We didn’t have them when I was a child, at least not at restaurants where adults would be happy to dine. (There were always “family” restaurants in the Friendly’s-HoJo’s idiom that offered junior sundaes and burgers.) I was thrilled that someone had come up with this innovation, that civilization had advanced to the point where children at good restaurants were now immediately placated with children’s food, so we adults could plunge worry-free into our adult business of drinking alcohol and eating things with tentacles. For restaurateurs there are advantages, too. Marc Murphy, the chef and an owner of Landmarc in TriBeCa (and its new sister operation in the Time Warner Center), says doing a children’s menu has helped the bottom line at his bistro, which is known for its neighborhood clientele and value-priced wines. “It totally drives that early seating for us,” he said. “The kids eat what they eat, and with our wine program, the parents can have fun.” Landmarc serves up the requisite greatest hits — the fingers, the burger, the grilled cheese — and throws in some curveballs, like “green eggs and ham,” flavored and colored with pesto sauce. As for me, my outlook on children’s menus started to change at some point — probably around the 102nd or 103rd time my children ordered chicken fingers with French fries. Even if the chicken fingers were good ones, made from real breast meat rather than pulverized and remolded chik-a-bits, I was disturbed by their ubiquity and their hold on my kids, who are 11 and 8 years old. I noticed that accommodationist chefs were making chicken fingers available in Italian, Chinese and Japanese restaurants, where chicken fingers aren’t even culinarily justifiable. I perceived that my children’s chicken-finger meals outside the home were informing their eating habits inside the home, where they were getting more finicky. I heard from other parents that they were experiencing the same thing. In short, I came to the realization that America is in the grips of a nefarious chicken-finger pandemic, in which a blandly tasty foodstuff has somehow become the de facto official nibble of our young. For all the fretfulness I’m obligated to express over the health implications of this pandemic — chicken fingers are often fried, and are often accompanied by fries — I’m much more rankled by its palate-deadening potential. Far from being an advance, I’ve concluded, the standard children’s menu is regressive, encouraging children (and their misguided parents) to believe that there is a rigidly delineated “kids’ cuisine” that exists entirely apart from grown-up cuisine. I grew up eating what my parents ate, at home and at restaurants. Sometimes, the experience could be revelatory, as when I tried fish chowder for the first time on a trip to Boston, or when my mother attempted ’s Soupe au Pistou. Other times, dinner was merely dinner, not transcendent but comfortingly routine. And then there were those bummer meals that I just didn’t care for, like stuffed cabbage, but that I endured because my parents offered no other choice. It was all experiential grist for the mill, and it made me — like millions of other Americans of my generation who were raised the same way — a fairly adventurous eater with a built-in sense of dietary balance. It pains me that many children now grow up eating little besides golden-brown logs of kid food, especially in a time when the quality, variety and availability of good ingredients is better than ever. Kids Never Say 'Yech!' Food Alarm Is Supersized At Center of a Clash, Rowdy Children in Coffee Shops THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; McDonald's says it's time to turn off the TV. Now stand up and touch your toes. Repeat. Gustibus: Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Op-Ed Contributor: Fliers and No Plan B Economix: Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/reviews/30wine.html New York City Restaurant Reviews WINES OF THE TIMES Summer Breezes in, Sipping Barbera that noise? Sort of like a whoosh, a collective exhale, a sigh of relaxation? Is it a signal that summer may finally be upon us? of The Times: Barbera d'Asti and d'Alba Pairings: An Earthy Mushroom Pasta Sauce With Piquant Cheese for an Earthy, Truffly Wine Regardless of the calendar, here in the Northeast Memorial Day is the figurative beginning of summer. Sure, school has a few more lumbering weeks to go, and the water isn’t yet warm enough to shed the wet suit. But outdoor cooking has begun, and that, my friends, means it’s time to open up that top button, loosen up those shoulders and allow that pent-up anxiety to ease itself away. Which brings us to barbera. Now, don’t tighten up! Class most definitely is not in session. This will be fun. Why? Because barbera is exactly what you want for those burgers sizzling on the grill. We could talk about a lot of different red wines for summer, when you tire of whites and rosés. Zinfandel might be a nice choice, if you could find one with an alcohol level below 15 percent. So might a Côtes-du-Rhône. But a good barbera is the epitome of an elemental, honest red wine. It offers you fruit — lots of spicy cherry and raspberry flavors — and it doesn’t hurl them at you in some formless mass. Barbera is shaped by a bracing acidity. It’s got a bite, a burr, that makes the fruit incisive and refreshing. Though barbera is a red wine, it behaves like a white. Unlike most reds it has few tannins. Structure comes from the acidity, as with most whites, and while you wouldn’t want to serve it icy cold, it does take to a light chilling. Come to think of it, barbera has a lot in common with Beaujolais, too, another red with good acidity and low tannins. Both are joyous wines, and both are somewhat out of favor, undeservedly so. The truth is, barbera and Beaujolais share an esteem problem. Barbera, like dolcetto, has long been one of the everyday reds of the Piedmont region of northwestern Italy. Today’s wine culture, which overvalues the great at the expense of the good, pays far more attention to the powerful, profound Barolos and Barbarescos, and less to daily dinner table wines like barbera. As a result, some barbera producers determined that they would try to make more serious barberas. They planted the grapes in better sites, gave them more attention and limited the yields. They aged the wine in new oak barrels as if it were a top Bordeaux. Every once in a while, these wines have hit the mark, as in the brilliant but hard-to-find barberas of Braida, which integrate the fruit of the barbera and the tannins of the oak into a seamless whole. More often they come across not as profound but as pretentious, because the essence of barbera, that cherry fruit with its refreshing rasp, is buried under velvety soft flavors of vanilla and chocolate flavors derived from oak. Nonetheless, this experimentation underlined the fact that barbera deserves to be taken seriously, though without ostentation. And in fact, plenty of fine barbera is produced, as the wine panel confirmed in a tasting of 25 bottles from the Alba and Asti sections of the Piedmont. For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Piero Trotta, wine director at San Domenico, and Marco Albanese, wine director at Lupa. Good barbera today resides somewhere between the simple wines of old, which could be thin and acidic, and the oaky aspiration bottles, tasting purely of ambition. The best barberas seem suspended on a teetering balance, pulled by the bright fruit on the one side and the acidity on the other. That tension gives the wine its characteristic energy. The last bottle on our Top 10 list is a perfect example. It’s the 2004 Le Orme from Michele Chiarlo, a big producer in Asti who also makes some more ambitious bottles. This one is pure and simple barbera, with sparkling acidity and glistening cherry fruit unimpeded by oak flavors. It’s a good introduction to barbera, and yet the wines can be much more than this, as with our No. 1 wine, the 2004 from Bartolo Mascarello, a wine of great intensity, full of rich, earthy fruit flavors and yet deliciously refreshing. It does the balancing act with barely a shiver. your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30wate.html Wilson/The Panisse, Alice Waters&#146;s restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., helped lead the way with house-made sparkling water. bother asking for Fiji, San Pellegrino or any other designer water at either Incanto, a restaurant that opened in San Francisco in 2002, or at Poggio, which opened in Sausalito, Calif., two years later. Diani for in Santa Monica, Calif., is offering filtered tap water to diners. All their water comes out of the tap. It’s filtered before it reaches the table, but it’s from the public water system, just the same. “Serving our local water in reusable carafes makes more sense for the environment than manufacturing thousands of single-use glass bottles for someone to use once and throw away,” Incanto explains at its Web site. These two Bay Area restaurants were pretty much alone in kicking the bottle habit until Alice Waters, the godmother of things organic, sustainable and local, banned bottled still water at Chez Panisse in Berkeley last year and started serving only house-made sparkling water this year. Then the press took notice. Now other California restaurants, like Nopa in San Francisco, are following suit. Even an ice cream shop — Ici, in Berkeley — has jumped on the non-bottled-water wagon. And now, with a little push from Ms. Waters, an important New York City restaurant is coming on board. It’s a big move in the restaurant industry, which, if you extrapolate from the amount of water it buys, takes in at least $200 million to $350 million from bottled water a year, according to the restaurant consultant Clark Wolf. The “eat local” movement first became popular in California, so it makes sense that “drink local” is catching on there as a way to reduce the environmental costs of manufacturing and transporting bottles of water, as well as the mountains of plastic that end up in landfills. But soon the owners of Del Posto in New York, the most elegant and expensive of the restaurants in the empire of Joseph Bastianich and Mario Batali, will be joining the nascent movement — once they decide on the proper containers for their filtered still and carbonated tap water. Etched on the glass will be an explanation of why bottled water is no longer available. “Filling cargo ships with water and sending it hundreds and thousands of miles to get it around the world seems ridiculous,” Mr. Bastianich said. “With all the other things we do for sustainability, it makes sense.” He added that of all their restaurants, Del Posto was best able to afford the change. When Maury Rubin opened the first Birdbath Neighborhood Green Bakery in the East Village in 2005 and the second in Greenwich Village last month, banning bottled water was a no-brainer. “It was actually an easy decision,” Mr. Rubin said. “Bottled water is not great for the environment.” Other restaurants, including the Farmers Diner in Quechee, Vt., have made the switch, but they have not made waves. Tod Murphy, who owns the diner and has gained a certain celebrity in the food world for serving local products, stopped ordering bottled water in February. “It makes no sense, because we have great well water,” he said, “but I had no idea I was on the cutting edge.” For almost everyone else the idea is still in the talking stage, in part because there’s a big profit in bottled water, even though some of it comes out of a tap before it goes into the bottle. Restaurants buy it for $1 or $2 and sell it for as much as $8, or even more, giving it the highest markup of any item on the menu. Most restaurants making their own sparkling water are not charging for it. Geoffrey Zakarian, the chef and an owner of Country in Manhattan, described the ban as “a worthy thing to do.” But he added, “You have to make a profit.” “Alice is very commendable and extraordinary, and we look to her,” Mr. Zakarian said, “but I think she gets carried away sometimes.” He wondered where he would make up the lost revenue if he eliminated bottled water. “Serving tap water is a great idea that we’d all love to be able to do, but it’s not going to happen all at once.” Tom Colicchio, the chef and an owner of Craft restaurant and several spinoffs, was incredulous that restaurants would contemplate such a change. “This is the first I’ve heard of it,” he said. “Why would you do that — not from a money standpoint, but from a service and hospitality standpoint? Fifty to 60 percent prefer bottled water, especially sparkling.”
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30holi.html Having a Snack? Make It a Holiday - a Snack? Make It a Holiday Illustration by Seymour Chwast May 30, 2007 WE are, each and every one of us, standing together on the threshold of National Surimi Seafood Month. June is also the month to celebrate papayas, iced tea, frozen yogurt, candy, soul food, steakhouses and applesauce cake. And whether you eat turkeys or simply admire them, prepare to party. June is Turkey Lovers’ Month, too. by Seymour Chwast At least 175 days a year are set aside in recognition of some form of food or drink. This puts a lot of pressure on the average eater. The week of July 15 alone starts with Tapioca Day, moves into Fresh Spinach Day, National Caviar Day and National Daiquiri Day, and ends with National Junk Food Day. Most food holidays didn’t spring from a spontaneous national outpouring of passion for, say, lunchmeat (Bologna Day is Oct. 24, by the way). Unlike Mother’s Day, which sprung from early anti-war efforts, National Crown Roast of Pork Day (March 7) has no political underpinnings. National Frozen Food Month (also in March) does not have the religious or cultural framework of Valentine’s Day. Although most elected officials will happily declare a food holiday when a trade association or commodity group asks, the proclamations don’t really mean much. Schools and banks do not close for National Vinegar Day (June 16). No, most food holidays are invented by people who want to sell more food. Bake for Family Fun Month, bless its heart, appears dedicated to preserving a meaningful ritual of the kitchen during February. That may well happen, but the holiday also benefits its sponsor, an association of companies that sell flour, butter and home baking equipment. So many food holidays can be hard to keep track of. There are almost two dozen dessert days, a number that begs for comparisons. Is National Sacher Torte Day bigger than Spongecake Day? Or are both kicked to the curb by National Butterscotch Pudding Day? (Sept. 19, if you’re planning ahead.) Food holidays can highlight gross injustice. Consider the sandwich category. Egg salad gets a week in April, but the peanut butter and jelly — clearly the more enduring American sandwich — has only a day (April 2). Nowhere are the holidays more unevenly distributed than among the fruits. Is it fair, for example, that raisins and figs get only a week each, but peaches have an entire month (July)? And peaches have nothing on apples, which get three months (September through November), with special break-out days for specific varieties. (Eat a Red Apple Day comes, inexplicably, on Dec. 1.) Blame seniority. Apple Week is one of the earliest food holidays. It began in 1904. By the 1970s, the week became a month, and by the 1990s the apple celebration had grown to three months, said Kay Rentzel, director of the U.S. Apple Association’s national apple month program. Apple sales jump by as much as 25 percent during the promotion, Ms. Rentzel said. Last year 5,550 retailers received certificates from Ms. Rentzel’s office for participating. “They may have special apple events that go on or they may have special signage in their store,” she said. “Some stores will do a baking contest. It’s a pretty exciting time.” Often, a commodity group looking to popularize a food holiday will wrangle a government official to help. Three years ago, the California Wine Institute convinced Gov. to declare September California Wine Month. It’s not the only food holiday he likes. Mr. Schwarzenegger declared July California Wild King Salmon Month and January California Dried Plum Digestive Health Month. But prunes and cabernet don’t need the governor’s blessing. In the loosely organized world of food holidays, nothing is really required for legitimacy. One could simply decide that Sept. 12 is Ropa Vieja Day and hope that a blogger somewhere picks it up and gives it some traction. For serious students of the genre, there is something of an authority: Chase’s Calendar of Events, 750 pages of notable birthdays, community happenings and holidays. If someone develops an idea for, say, Bread Pudding Recipe Exchange Week (May 1-7) and submits a form found in the back of the book, it will be considered for inclusion. Chase’s has standards, and not every proposal makes the cut. An organization has to agree to sponsor the holiday, or there has to be some sort of ongoing promotion or tangible enthusiasm for it, said Holly McGuire, who edits the book in Chicago. to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Online Shopper; Pies With Down-Home Magic, Yours for the Clicking Online, Not in Line, For Holiday Treats FOOD STUFF; Celebrating Connections Between Food And Holidays Holidays and Special Occasions million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Find Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30mini.html Summer&#8217;s for Soft-Shells, With a New Orleans Riff - for Soft-Shells, With a New Orleans Riff May 30, 2007 THERE may be no bad way to prepare soft-shell crabs. They contain so much moisture they’re just about impossible to overcook, and they cook so quickly they’re hard to undercook. Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy They have built-in crispness: that slightly leathery soft shell always has some snap, and it’s enhanced by any kind of cooking. And their flavor, though subtle, shines through in just about any preparation. Having said that, the near-universally favorite way to serve soft-shells is fried. Most people agree that the coating should contain some cornmeal, and that a quick dip in milk or eggs to thicken the coating and help it adhere is useful. When you put those fried crabs on bread, you have a riff on the New Orleans poor-boy. The specifics of this creation can be endlessly debated, but the fixings usually include lettuce, tomato and mayonnaise. Oddly enough, the true poor-boy is made on less-than-fabulous bread, labeled “French” or “Italian” in supermarkets. The sandwich is vastly improved by removing some of the mushy white crumb, and toasting what is left. (After a few tries using better bread, I began to understand the logic: the best baguettes are too tough to use for stout fillings like the crabs.) There’s not much cooking here. Sometimes crabs spatter, so it’s best to fry them in oil that’s not smoking hot. On the other hand, the shopping can be tricky. Most soft-shells are alive when they’re shipped, so look for crabs with some life in them. That means they will need some preparation to be ready for cooking. I suggest you ask the fishmonger to clean the crabs for you, because though the process is a quick and easy one, it’s not for the squeamish. (For one thing, it involves cutting off what amounts to the face.) It’s best to cook the crabs the same day this is done. At that point, you can hardly go wrong. Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Time: 30 minutes 1 12- to 16-inch-long loaf supermarket French- or Italian-style bread, or 2 smaller loaves 1/2 teaspoon cayenne, or more Neutral oil, like corn or grapeseed, as needed 2 large soft-shell crabs, cleaned For garnish: mayonnaise, lettuce, tomato, hot sauce or lemon. 1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Split bread in half and remove some of the soft white crumb with your fingers. Toast bread lightly in oven, about 10 to 15 minutes. 2. Beat egg and milk together in a bowl; combine the cornmeal, flour, cayenne and a large pinch of salt on a plate. Put about 1/4-inch of oil in a deep skillet broad enough to accommodate crabs, and turn heat to medium. When oil is hot — a pinch of flour will sizzle — dip crabs in milk-egg mixture, then dredge in the cornmeal-flour mixture. Put in skillet; adjust heat so crabs bubble gently but not furiously in oil. 3. When bottom is nicely browned, 3 to 5 minutes, turn crabs and brown other side; crabs will be quite firm when done. 4. Serve on toasted bread, garnished as you like. to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. IN NEW ORLEANS, GASTRONOMIC TRUTH ON THE HALF SHELL million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt Point That Menu at My Child, Please America is in the grips of a nefarious chicken-finger pandemic, in which a bland tasting foodstuff has somehow become the de facto official nibble of our young. Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Some restaurants have stopped selling bottled water as a way to reduce the environmental costs of manufacturing and transporting bottles of water. Having a Snack? Make It a Holiday At least 175 days a year are set aside in recognition of some form of food or drink. This puts a lot of pressure on the average eater. Go, Eat, You Never Know Frank Bruni visits Katz’s Deli, a New York fixture since 1888. Summer’s for Soft-Shells, With a New Orleans Riff There may be no bad way to prepare soft-shell crabs but when you put those fried crabs on bread, you have a take on the New Orleans poor-boy. Video: The Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Wines of the Times Summer Breezes in, Sipping Barbera Red wine this summer? The panel samples the barberas from Asti and Alba. Interactive Feature: Wines of The Times An Earthy Mushroom Pasta Sauce With Piquant Cheese for an Earthy, Truffly Wine At Midday, You See All Types What is the point of a business lunch? Lunch in a restaurant, like good deeds, is best when it’s voluntary and anonymous. Saffron Power: Yellow, Yet Not Necessarily Mellow Saffron can be the most intimidating spice in your kitchen, but its power dictates a sparing hand. From a Pennsylvania Garden Patch, Down-Home Crocus Taste In parts of Pennsylvania Dutch country, any respectable cook making the local specialty, chicken pot pie, always uses a pinch of saffron. A Crowd-Pleaser of a Trip and a Book to Try at Home An exhibition on ice cream at the Farmers’ Museum in Cooperstown, N.Y.; a Finnish cheese called juustoleipa (YOO-sto-lay-bah); and a new Bowery kitchen. Three Menus and a Few Sure Things Lucky Eight is a small place with a big repertory spread across three menus. Frank Bruni explores the oddity of milk-fed poultry. Go to Blog » Eric Asimov spends some time reflecting on pinot gris wines. Go to Blog » The Monkey Bar reopens on Monday, Rayuela opens this week, Alex Garcia of Gaucho steak has another stove to tend and more. Recipe: Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Recipe: Roasted Poussin With Braised Hearts of Romaine, Parmesan and Anchovy Recipe: Vegetable Paella With Wild Mushrooms Recipe: Saffron Almond Meringues Recipe: Pennsylvania Dutch Chicken Pot Pie Recipe: Fettuccine With Mushroom Ragù The Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, cooks a New Orleans favorite. (Warning: Contains images of violence to crabs.) Wines of The Times: Barbera d'Asti and d'Alba The panel found in a tasting of 25 barberas that the best seemed suspended on a teetering balance, pulled by bright fruit on one side and acidity on the other. New Jersey: Axia Taverna Long Island: Michaels at the Boardwalk Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards MOST POPULAR - STYLE De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Life’s Work: Time Wasted? Perhaps It&#8217;s Well Spent At the Élysée, Seeing a New Camelot The Dirty Water Underground House Proud: Southern Gothic: Ghosts Welcome Having a Snack? Make It a Holiday Knowing Where to Draw the Tan Line Do the Math what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Looking for a job? Looking to buy a new car? See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. What’s new on Broadway? Plan what to see, eat and do. Which gadget is getting all the buzz?
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30kids.html?ex=1338177600&en=a1322949d686a883&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please - Point That Menu at My Child, Please May 30, 2007 IT seems like such a wonderful concept when you encounter it for the first time as a parent. You go to a restaurant as a family, are seated and given menus, and the waitress cheerfully turns to your children and exclaims, “And these are for you!” Their own special menus — kids’ menus! Sometimes these are little laminated things, peewee facsimiles of what Mom and Dad are holding. Sometimes these are placemats that not only tell you what foods are available but also contain mazes and word-search puzzles. do you think of the children’s menu? Evan Sung for customers dining from the children's menu at Landmarc at the Time Warner Center. Above, Nicolas Salas. No matter what, the menu offers chicken fingers with French fries. And typically, as you go down the list, macaroni and cheese, a hot dog, a hamburger, grilled cheese and some kind of pizza. Early in my tenure as a parent, I thought children’s menus were the greatest thing, a quantum leap forward in the human condition. We didn’t have them when I was a child, at least not at restaurants where adults would be happy to dine. (There were always “family” restaurants in the Friendly’s-HoJo’s idiom that offered junior sundaes and burgers.) I was thrilled that someone had come up with this innovation, that civilization had advanced to the point where children at good restaurants were now immediately placated with children’s food, so we adults could plunge worry-free into our adult business of drinking alcohol and eating things with tentacles. For restaurateurs there are advantages, too. Marc Murphy, the chef and an owner of Landmarc in TriBeCa (and its new sister operation in the Time Warner Center), says doing a children’s menu has helped the bottom line at his bistro, which is known for its neighborhood clientele and value-priced wines. “It totally drives that early seating for us,” he said. “The kids eat what they eat, and with our wine program, the parents can have fun.” Landmarc serves up the requisite greatest hits — the fingers, the burger, the grilled cheese — and throws in some curveballs, like “green eggs and ham,” flavored and colored with pesto sauce. As for me, my outlook on children’s menus started to change at some point — probably around the 102nd or 103rd time my children ordered chicken fingers with French fries. Even if the chicken fingers were good ones, made from real breast meat rather than pulverized and remolded chik-a-bits, I was disturbed by their ubiquity and their hold on my kids, who are 11 and 8 years old. I noticed that accommodationist chefs were making chicken fingers available in Italian, Chinese and Japanese restaurants, where chicken fingers aren’t even culinarily justifiable. I perceived that my children’s chicken-finger meals outside the home were informing their eating habits inside the home, where they were getting more finicky. I heard from other parents that they were experiencing the same thing. In short, I came to the realization that America is in the grips of a nefarious chicken-finger pandemic, in which a blandly tasty foodstuff has somehow become the de facto official nibble of our young. For all the fretfulness I’m obligated to express over the health implications of this pandemic — chicken fingers are often fried, and are often accompanied by fries — I’m much more rankled by its palate-deadening potential. Far from being an advance, I’ve concluded, the standard children’s menu is regressive, encouraging children (and their misguided parents) to believe that there is a rigidly delineated “kids’ cuisine” that exists entirely apart from grown-up cuisine. I grew up eating what my parents ate, at home and at restaurants. Sometimes, the experience could be revelatory, as when I tried fish chowder for the first time on a trip to Boston, or when my mother attempted ’s Soupe au Pistou. Other times, dinner was merely dinner, not transcendent but comfortingly routine. And then there were those bummer meals that I just didn’t care for, like stuffed cabbage, but that I endured because my parents offered no other choice. It was all experiential grist for the mill, and it made me — like millions of other Americans of my generation who were raised the same way — a fairly adventurous eater with a built-in sense of dietary balance. It pains me that many children now grow up eating little besides golden-brown logs of kid food, especially in a time when the quality, variety and availability of good ingredients is better than ever. to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. These Kids Never Say 'Yech!' Food Alarm Is Supersized At Center of a Clash, Rowdy Children in Coffee Shops THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; McDonald's says it's time to turn off the TV. Now stand up and touch your toes. Repeat. Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Supreme Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity What I Think About Evolution Some Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/reviews/30wine.html New York City Restaurant Reviews WINES OF THE TIMES Summer Breezes in, Sipping Barbera May 30, 2007 WHAT’S that noise? Sort of like a whoosh, a collective exhale, a sigh of relaxation? Is it a signal that summer may finally be upon us? of The Times: Barbera d'Asti and d'Alba Pairings: An Earthy Mushroom Pasta Sauce With Piquant Cheese for an Earthy, Truffly Wine Regardless of the calendar, here in the Northeast Memorial Day is the figurative beginning of summer. Sure, school has a few more lumbering weeks to go, and the water isn’t yet warm enough to shed the wet suit. But outdoor cooking has begun, and that, my friends, means it’s time to open up that top button, loosen up those shoulders and allow that pent-up anxiety to ease itself away. Which brings us to barbera. Now, don’t tighten up! Class most definitely is not in session. This will be fun. Why? Because barbera is exactly what you want for those burgers sizzling on the grill. We could talk about a lot of different red wines for summer, when you tire of whites and rosés. Zinfandel might be a nice choice, if you could find one with an alcohol level below 15 percent. So might a Côtes-du-Rhône. But a good barbera is the epitome of an elemental, honest red wine. It offers you fruit — lots of spicy cherry and raspberry flavors — and it doesn’t hurl them at you in some formless mass. Barbera is shaped by a bracing acidity. It’s got a bite, a burr, that makes the fruit incisive and refreshing. Though barbera is a red wine, it behaves like a white. Unlike most reds it has few tannins. Structure comes from the acidity, as with most whites, and while you wouldn’t want to serve it icy cold, it does take to a light chilling. Come to think of it, barbera has a lot in common with Beaujolais, too, another red with good acidity and low tannins. Both are joyous wines, and both are somewhat out of favor, undeservedly so. The truth is, barbera and Beaujolais share an esteem problem. Barbera, like dolcetto, has long been one of the everyday reds of the Piedmont region of northwestern Italy. Today’s wine culture, which overvalues the great at the expense of the good, pays far more attention to the powerful, profound Barolos and Barbarescos, and less to daily dinner table wines like barbera. As a result, some barbera producers determined that they would try to make more serious barberas. They planted the grapes in better sites, gave them more attention and limited the yields. They aged the wine in new oak barrels as if it were a top Bordeaux. Every once in a while, these wines have hit the mark, as in the brilliant but hard-to-find barberas of Braida, which integrate the fruit of the barbera and the tannins of the oak into a seamless whole. More often they come across not as profound but as pretentious, because the essence of barbera, that cherry fruit with its refreshing rasp, is buried under velvety soft flavors of vanilla and chocolate flavors derived from oak. Nonetheless, this experimentation underlined the fact that barbera deserves to be taken seriously, though without ostentation. And in fact, plenty of fine barbera is produced, as the wine panel confirmed in a tasting of 25 bottles from the Alba and Asti sections of the Piedmont. For the tasting, Florence Fabricant and I were joined by Piero Trotta, wine director at San Domenico, and Marco Albanese, wine director at Lupa. Good barbera today resides somewhere between the simple wines of old, which could be thin and acidic, and the oaky aspiration bottles, tasting purely of ambition. The best barberas seem suspended on a teetering balance, pulled by the bright fruit on the one side and the acidity on the other. That tension gives the wine its characteristic energy. The last bottle on our Top 10 list is a perfect example. It’s the 2004 Le Orme from Michele Chiarlo, a big producer in Asti who also makes some more ambitious bottles. This one is pure and simple barbera, with sparkling acidity and glistening cherry fruit unimpeded by oak flavors. It’s a good introduction to barbera, and yet the wines can be much more than this, as with our No. 1 wine, the 2004 from Bartolo Mascarello, a wine of great intensity, full of rich, earthy fruit flavors and yet deliciously refreshing. It does the balancing act with barely a shiver. to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Find Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30wate.html Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water - the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Jim Wilson/The Panisse, Alice Waters&#146;s restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., helped lead the way with house-made sparkling water. May 30, 2007 DON’T bother asking for Fiji, San Pellegrino or any other designer water at either Incanto, a restaurant that opened in San Francisco in 2002, or at Poggio, which opened in Sausalito, Calif., two years later. Diani for in Santa Monica, Calif., is offering filtered tap water to diners. All their water comes out of the tap. It’s filtered before it reaches the table, but it’s from the public water system, just the same. “Serving our local water in reusable carafes makes more sense for the environment than manufacturing thousands of single-use glass bottles for someone to use once and throw away,” Incanto explains at its Web site. These two Bay Area restaurants were pretty much alone in kicking the bottle habit until Alice Waters, the godmother of things organic, sustainable and local, banned bottled still water at Chez Panisse in Berkeley last year and started serving only house-made sparkling water this year. Then the press took notice. Now other California restaurants, like Nopa in San Francisco, are following suit. Even an ice cream shop — Ici, in Berkeley — has jumped on the non-bottled-water wagon. And now, with a little push from Ms. Waters, an important New York City restaurant is coming on board. It’s a big move in the restaurant industry, which, if you extrapolate from the amount of water it buys, takes in at least $200 million to $350 million from bottled water a year, according to the restaurant consultant Clark Wolf. The “eat local” movement first became popular in California, so it makes sense that “drink local” is catching on there as a way to reduce the environmental costs of manufacturing and transporting bottles of water, as well as the mountains of plastic that end up in landfills. But soon the owners of Del Posto in New York, the most elegant and expensive of the restaurants in the empire of Joseph Bastianich and Mario Batali, will be joining the nascent movement — once they decide on the proper containers for their filtered still and carbonated tap water. Etched on the glass will be an explanation of why bottled water is no longer available. “Filling cargo ships with water and sending it hundreds and thousands of miles to get it around the world seems ridiculous,” Mr. Bastianich said. “With all the other things we do for sustainability, it makes sense.” He added that of all their restaurants, Del Posto was best able to afford the change. When Maury Rubin opened the first Birdbath Neighborhood Green Bakery in the East Village in 2005 and the second in Greenwich Village last month, banning bottled water was a no-brainer. “It was actually an easy decision,” Mr. Rubin said. “Bottled water is not great for the environment.” Other restaurants, including the Farmers Diner in Quechee, Vt., have made the switch, but they have not made waves. Tod Murphy, who owns the diner and has gained a certain celebrity in the food world for serving local products, stopped ordering bottled water in February. “It makes no sense, because we have great well water,” he said, “but I had no idea I was on the cutting edge.” For almost everyone else the idea is still in the talking stage, in part because there’s a big profit in bottled water, even though some of it comes out of a tap before it goes into the bottle. Restaurants buy it for $1 or $2 and sell it for as much as $8, or even more, giving it the highest markup of any item on the menu. Most restaurants making their own sparkling water are not charging for it. Geoffrey Zakarian, the chef and an owner of Country in Manhattan, described the ban as “a worthy thing to do.” But he added, “You have to make a profit.” “Alice is very commendable and extraordinary, and we look to her,” Mr. Zakarian said, “but I think she gets carried away sometimes.” He wondered where he would make up the lost revenue if he eliminated bottled water. “Serving tap water is a great idea that we’d all love to be able to do, but it’s not going to happen all at once.” Tom Colicchio, the chef and an owner of Craft restaurant and several spinoffs, was incredulous that restaurants would contemplate such a change. “This is the first I’ve heard of it,” he said. “Why would you do that — not from a money standpoint, but from a service and hospitality standpoint? Fifty to 60 percent prefer bottled water, especially sparkling.” to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands 50% off Times delivery. Find Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30holi.html Having a Snack? Make It a Holiday - a Snack? Make It a Holiday Illustration by Seymour Chwast May 30, 2007 WE are, each and every one of us, standing together on the threshold of National Surimi Seafood Month. June is also the month to celebrate papayas, iced tea, frozen yogurt, candy, soul food, steakhouses and applesauce cake. And whether you eat turkeys or simply admire them, prepare to party. June is Turkey Lovers’ Month, too. by Seymour Chwast At least 175 days a year are set aside in recognition of some form of food or drink. This puts a lot of pressure on the average eater. The week of July 15 alone starts with Tapioca Day, moves into Fresh Spinach Day, National Caviar Day and National Daiquiri Day, and ends with National Junk Food Day. Most food holidays didn’t spring from a spontaneous national outpouring of passion for, say, lunchmeat (Bologna Day is Oct. 24, by the way). Unlike Mother’s Day, which sprung from early anti-war efforts, National Crown Roast of Pork Day (March 7) has no political underpinnings. National Frozen Food Month (also in March) does not have the religious or cultural framework of Valentine’s Day. Although most elected officials will happily declare a food holiday when a trade association or commodity group asks, the proclamations don’t really mean much. Schools and banks do not close for National Vinegar Day (June 16). No, most food holidays are invented by people who want to sell more food. Bake for Family Fun Month, bless its heart, appears dedicated to preserving a meaningful ritual of the kitchen during February. That may well happen, but the holiday also benefits its sponsor, an association of companies that sell flour, butter and home baking equipment. So many food holidays can be hard to keep track of. There are almost two dozen dessert days, a number that begs for comparisons. Is National Sacher Torte Day bigger than Spongecake Day? Or are both kicked to the curb by National Butterscotch Pudding Day? (Sept. 19, if you’re planning ahead.) Food holidays can highlight gross injustice. Consider the sandwich category. Egg salad gets a week in April, but the peanut butter and jelly — clearly the more enduring American sandwich — has only a day (April 2). Nowhere are the holidays more unevenly distributed than among the fruits. Is it fair, for example, that raisins and figs get only a week each, but peaches have an entire month (July)? And peaches have nothing on apples, which get three months (September through November), with special break-out days for specific varieties. (Eat a Red Apple Day comes, inexplicably, on Dec. 1.) Blame seniority. Apple Week is one of the earliest food holidays. It began in 1904. By the 1970s, the week became a month, and by the 1990s the apple celebration had grown to three months, said Kay Rentzel, director of the U.S. Apple Association’s national apple month program. Apple sales jump by as much as 25 percent during the promotion, Ms. Rentzel said. Last year 5,550 retailers received certificates from Ms. Rentzel’s office for participating. “They may have special apple events that go on or they may have special signage in their store,” she said. “Some stores will do a baking contest. It’s a pretty exciting time.” Often, a commodity group looking to popularize a food holiday will wrangle a government official to help. Three years ago, the California Wine Institute convinced Gov. to declare September California Wine Month. It’s not the only food holiday he likes. Mr. Schwarzenegger declared July California Wild King Salmon Month and January California Dried Plum Digestive Health Month. But prunes and cabernet don’t need the governor’s blessing. In the loosely organized world of food holidays, nothing is really required for legitimacy. One could simply decide that Sept. 12 is Ropa Vieja Day and hope that a blogger somewhere picks it up and gives it some traction. For serious students of the genre, there is something of an authority: Chase’s Calendar of Events, 750 pages of notable birthdays, community happenings and holidays. If someone develops an idea for, say, Bread Pudding Recipe Exchange Week (May 1-7) and submits a form found in the back of the book, it will be considered for inclusion. Chase’s has standards, and not every proposal makes the cut. An organization has to agree to sponsor the holiday, or there has to be some sort of ongoing promotion or tangible enthusiasm for it, said Holly McGuire, who edits the book in Chicago. Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 19) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Online Shopper; Pies With Down-Home Magic, Yours for the Clicking Online, Not in Line, For Holiday Treats FOOD STUFF; Celebrating Connections Between Food And Holidays Holidays and Special Occasions Next Article in Dining & Wine (3 of 19) &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky 50% off Times delivery. Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/03dineli.html?ex=1338523200&en=ae564ad6580b0699&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss House Carries Storied Name but Is Defined by Steak - Carries Storied Name but Is Defined by Steak June 3, 2007 DID the “good gray poet” like red meat? Does it matter? Naming a steakhouse for Walt Whitman is a question of location. Whitman’s Steakhouse, which opened in Huntington Station in early April, is about a mile from the Walt Whitman Birthplace in West Hills. (A mall that also bears his name is even closer to the birthplace.) Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey » The setting is an old house from around the turn of the 20th century that had been lovingly restored by owners of the previous restaurant here, Mae Brown’s. Whitman’s wisely kept the beautiful wood paneling, typical of steakhouses. The upper half of the walls is covered in pale beige fabric, a nice backdrop for paintings including scenes of Northport and a view of the Huntington Lighthouse by local artists. The restaurant’s ambience is sedate and runs to comfortable seating, brocade draperies, carpeting, white tablecloths and wrought-iron chandeliers adorned with crystals. Happily, the service is not in the curmudgeonly steakhouse tradition. On my first visit, our waiter was personable, and service was right on the money. There were a few glitches on a second night: We received garlic mashed potatoes instead of the wasabi variety we had ordered, and what had been billed as a chopped steak with sautéed onions and French fries was served hamburger style on a bun with no onions. When the mistakes were pointed out, we quickly received the correct mashed potatoes and a side dish of sautéed onions. (We were not charged for either the potatoes or the chopped steak.) Take a cue from the restaurant’s name and head right for the steaks. They were all super, even a sirloin that a tablemate ordered medium-well (usually a disaster). It was cooked just the way she liked it but, amazingly, was still juicy. The best steak was the ribeye, which was well marbled with a terrific char. The porterhouse for two was also exemplary, although the ribeye had a slight edge. Also praiseworthy were the ivory-white, pan-seared sea bass in a Caribbean sauce (fruity but not sweet) and a thick, tender veal chop running with juices. The lamb chops turned out to be a crusted rack of lamb, cooked precisely to order. Steaks arrive solo in steakhouse fashion, so it is necessary to order side dishes. (The sea bass and lamb were accompanied by vegetables; the veal chop was not.) The best side dish was the home fries, tiny cubes of potato and onion, fried till crisp and crowned with a confetti of multicolored peppers. French fries (medium cut), garlic and wasabi mashed potatoes, creamed spinach and asparagus dotted with sautéed garlic were also good. Wild mushrooms, though, were soft and steamed rather than crisp from the sauté pan. The crab meat cocktail, a pristine pile of lump crab, was the top seafood opener. The crab cake, a giant one with shredded rather than lump crab, and the shrimp cocktail of four large but not colossal crustaceans, were forgettable. The best salad was the Whitman’s salad with chopped shrimp, haricots verts, crunchy sweet onions, pimientos, summer-quality tomatoes and crumbled bacon. We also liked the wedge of iceberg with blue cheese dressing, a retro treat that is fast becoming an Island favorite, and the house salad, which included apple slices, berries and nuts. The Caesar was a bit timid. An outstanding bread basket, piled with onion rolls, raisin-nut bread, chunks of baguettes and addictive, paper-thin crisps studded with rosemary, got the meal off to a good start, and desserts ended it in style. The sweets to order are the chocolate truffle cake, a small wedge of fudgelike goodness, and an exceptionally creamy tiramisù. Cheesecake, that steakhouse favorite, was unavailable the night we tried to order it. 257 East Jericho Turnpike Attractively converted house from around the turn of the 20th century, traditional and comfortable. Not wheelchair accessible. Mainly couples but a number of family groups with children. Quiet and separate from the dining room. A list of about 100 ranging from $27 to $500. A dozen wines are available by the glass, $7.50 to $14. Lunch entrees $14 (club sandwich) to $32 (filet mignon). Dinner entrees $18 (chicken or chopped steak) to $42 (ribeye). American Express, Visa, MasterCard and Discover are accepted. Crab cocktail, house salad, Whitman’s salad, iceberg wedge, ribeye steak, porterhouse for two, sirloin, rack of lamb, veal chop, sea bass, chocolate truffle cake, tiramisù. Lunch: Monday to Friday, 11:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. Dinner: Monday to Thursday, 5 to 9 p.m., Friday and Saturday, 5 to 10:30 p.m. and Sunday 1 to 9 p.m. Reservations are recommended. Reviewed June 3, 2007 More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LONG ISLAND; A Dosa a Day? Why Not? LONG ISLAND; Scattershot DÃ©cor, Sure-Shot Restaurateur DINING/MELVILLE; New Chef Enhances A Proven Crowd Pleaser DINING/RIVERHEAD; Plenty to Admire (Punctuation Aside) More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/dining/index.html?partner=rssnyt Dining & Wine - Sweetie, I Quit to Bake Cupcakes The $3 cupcake craze seduces long-dieting Los Angeles. House Carries Storied Name but Is Defined by Steak At Whitman’s Steakhouse in Huntington, take a cue from the restaurant’s name and head right for the steaks. Sauvignon Blancs by the Dozen By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG A recent sampling of a dozen Long Island sauvignon blancs showed that they easily compete with local chardonnays for meals and perhaps have an edge as aperitifs. Don’t Point That Menu at My Child, Please America is in the grips of a nefarious chicken-finger pandemic, in which a bland tasting foodstuff has somehow become the de facto official nibble of our young. Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Some restaurants have stopped selling bottled water as a way to reduce the environmental costs of manufacturing and transporting bottles of water. Having a Snack? Make It a Holiday At least 175 days a year are set aside in recognition of some form of food or drink. This puts a lot of pressure on the average eater. Go, Eat, You Never Know Frank Bruni visits Katz’s Deli, a New York fixture since 1888. Summer’s for Soft-Shells, With a New Orleans Riff There may be no bad way to prepare soft-shell crabs but when you put those fried crabs on bread, you have a take on the New Orleans poor-boy. Video: The Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Wines of the Times Summer Breezes in, Sipping Barbera Red wine this summer? The panel samples the barberas from Asti and Alba. Interactive Feature: Wines of The Times An Earthy Mushroom Pasta Sauce With Piquant Cheese for an Earthy, Truffly Wine At Midday, You See All Types What is the point of a business lunch? Lunch in a restaurant, like good deeds, is best when it’s voluntary and anonymous. Saffron Power: Yellow, Yet Not Necessarily Mellow Saffron can be the most intimidating spice in your kitchen, but its power dictates a sparing hand. From a Pennsylvania Garden Patch, Down-Home Crocus Taste In parts of Pennsylvania Dutch country, any respectable cook making the local specialty, chicken pot pie, always uses a pinch of saffron. A Crowd-Pleaser of a Trip and a Book to Try at Home An exhibition on ice cream at the Farmers’ Museum in Cooperstown, N.Y.; a Finnish cheese called juustoleipa (YOO-sto-lay-bah); and a new Bowery kitchen. Three Menus and a Few Sure Things Lucky Eight is a small place with a big repertory spread across three menus. Frank Bruni discusses burgers and pizzas throughout the New York area. Go to Blog » Eric Asimov discusses varying opinions on alcohol content in wines. Go to Blog » The Monkey Bar reopens on Monday, Rayuela opens this week, Alex Garcia of Gaucho steak has another stove to tend and more. Recipe: Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Recipe: Roasted Poussin With Braised Hearts of Romaine, Parmesan and Anchovy Recipe: Vegetable Paella With Wild Mushrooms Recipe: Saffron Almond Meringues Recipe: Pennsylvania Dutch Chicken Pot Pie Recipe: Fettuccine With Mushroom Ragù The Soft-Shell Crab Poor-Boy Times food columnist Mark Bittman, a k a The Minimalist, cooks a New Orleans favorite. (Warning: Contains images of violence to crabs.) Wines of The Times: Barbera d'Asti and d'Alba The panel found in a tasting of 25 barberas that the best seemed suspended on a teetering balance, pulled by bright fruit on one side and acidity on the other. New Jersey: Axia Taverna Long Island: Michaels at the Boardwalk Long Island Vines: Clovis Point and Medolla Vineyards MOST POPULAR - STYLE So, Sweetie, I Quit to Bake Cupcakes Lower East Side Is Under a Groove Surf&#8217;s Up, but the Water Is Brown Life’s Work: Time Wasted? Perhaps It&#8217;s Well Spent Vows: Jennifer Openshaw and Randy Schwimmer De Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Jessica Antonellis and Alexis Casano The Dirty Water Underground Modern Love: When China Reopened, I Rushed in Too Fast A Fly on the Gallery Wall Do the Math home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Akeem Olajuwon - 1983 Get what’s cooking at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Continuous coverage of business news. See what’s cooking out or at home for $3.15 a week. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Plan what to see, eat and do. Looking to buy a new car? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/fashion/03cupcake.html?ex=1338523200&en=b6acbfc5543c7753&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss So, Sweetie, I Quit to Bake Cupcakes - Sweetie, I Quit to Bake Cupcakes Monica Almeida/The bakers in the Los Angeles area include Amy and Jeremy Berman of the Vanilla Bake Shop. June 3, 2007 Nelson of Sprinkles. AS Hollywood apprentices go, Amy Berman had it pretty good as a production assistant on “Will & Grace.” She met guest stars like Madonna and Jennifer Lopez, hung out in the writers room and often had drinks with producers after the Tuesday-night tapings. It was a plum Hollywood primer, letting her explore whether writing, directing or producing might be right for her. After a year and a half of shuttling scripts, she figured it out: what she really wanted to do was bake. She left the entertainment industry for pastry school, and in 2005 began delivering bite-size cupcakes to the sets of TV shows like “The Office.” Next week, her bakery, the Vanilla Bake Shop, a little place with cotton-candy-color walls, is to open in Santa Monica, Calif. “I’m still working 15 hours a day,” said Ms. Berman, now 29, “But it’s my passion.” Inspired by the allure of the quaint, the glamorization of the food industry and the success of places like Sprinkles Cupcakes in Beverly Hills, which brought the let’s-wait-in-long-lines-for-a-cupcake trend to the West Coast, a rash of white-collar professionals in Los Angeles have traded corporate jobs for lives as flour-coated entrepreneurs. In the past year, about a dozen boutique bakeries serving expensive versions of all-American desserts like banana pudding and $3 red velvet cupcakes have popped up around the city, many run by second-act bakers. Kirk Rossberg, who owns the 23-year-old Torrance Bakery in the South Bay area of Los Angeles County, said he’s swamped with intern applicants. “Until last year, I never had people asking to work for free,” said Mr. Rossberg, who is also president of the California Retail Bakers Association. He estimated that of the 30 interns he used this year, 90 percent were leaving professional careers to pursue a dream of opening a bakery. Blame it on a culture where the BlackBerry-obsessed run around like overcaffeinated track stars, but there is a tremendous craving for comfort, particularly in fast-paced cities like Los Angeles, said Grant McCracken, the author of the book “Culture and Consumption II: Markets, Meaning and Brand Management.” For many people, he said, “baking represents that, it harks back to a simpler time.” Comfort food, it seems, has become a comfort career. Lesley Balla, the editor of the foodie blog , said: “Do we really need another bakery? Probably not. But Angelenos have been starving for sugar and carbs for so long that the bakeries seem like a breath of fresh air.” Besides, she said, “if it’s the hot new thing, everyone’s going to really want it in L.A, because that’s what we do.” And, perhaps, overdo. Jonathan Gold, the Pulitzer-winning food critic for LA Weekly, said hardly a week goes by without a box of cookies or cupcakes landing on his desk from a new place he’s never heard of. “And they’re not just cupcakes,” he said. “They’re cupcakes with publicists.” Still, Mr. Gold understands why the city might inspire a craving for jobs with more tangible fruits. “In a town where people say no to you all the time and you rarely have the simple satisfaction of getting something made, being able to make a sweet simple thing that makes people happy is really compelling.” Rebecca Marrs, the director of career services at the California School of Culinary Arts in Pasadena, has seen a noticeable rise in the number of older career-shifters, as opposed to 20-somethings hoping to break in after high school or college. Enrollment in the baking program increased 31 percent last year, she said, and the school recently added its first evening and weekend patisserie program to accommodate demand from working professionals looking to switch acts. Not all late-blooming bakers cultivate the craft at pastry school. Many simply rely on recipes and skills they picked up in grandma’s kitchen, with their own ovens and hand mixers playing supporting roles. Take Charles and Candace Nelson, the team behind the Los Angeles-based cupcake chain Sprinkles, who bid farewell to six-figure investment banking salaries in 2002 to start a dessert-catering business out of their kitchen. Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. FOOD STUFF; Cupcakes at 15 M.P.H. URBAN TACTICS; Such Sweet Children One Critic's Delight . . . Once Just a Cupcake, These Days a Swell Bakeries and Baked Products Next Article in Fashion & Style (6 of 12) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30kids.html?ex=1338177600&en=a1322949d686a883&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please - Point That Menu at My Child, Please May 30, 2007 IT seems like such a wonderful concept when you encounter it for the first time as a parent. You go to a restaurant as a family, are seated and given menus, and the waitress cheerfully turns to your children and exclaims, “And these are for you!” Their own special menus — kids’ menus! Sometimes these are little laminated things, peewee facsimiles of what Mom and Dad are holding. Sometimes these are placemats that not only tell you what foods are available but also contain mazes and word-search puzzles. do you think of the children’s menu? Evan Sung for The customers dining from the children's menu at Landmarc at the Time Warner Center. Above, Nicolas Salas. No matter what, the menu offers chicken fingers with French fries. And typically, as you go down the list, macaroni and cheese, a hot dog, a hamburger, grilled cheese and some kind of pizza. Early in my tenure as a parent, I thought children’s menus were the greatest thing, a quantum leap forward in the human condition. We didn’t have them when I was a child, at least not at restaurants where adults would be happy to dine. (There were always “family” restaurants in the Friendly’s-HoJo’s idiom that offered junior sundaes and burgers.) I was thrilled that someone had come up with this innovation, that civilization had advanced to the point where children at good restaurants were now immediately placated with children’s food, so we adults could plunge worry-free into our adult business of drinking alcohol and eating things with tentacles. For restaurateurs there are advantages, too. Marc Murphy, the chef and an owner of Landmarc in TriBeCa (and its new sister operation in the Time Warner Center), says doing a children’s menu has helped the bottom line at his bistro, which is known for its neighborhood clientele and value-priced wines. “It totally drives that early seating for us,” he said. “The kids eat what they eat, and with our wine program, the parents can have fun.” Landmarc serves up the requisite greatest hits — the fingers, the burger, the grilled cheese — and throws in some curveballs, like “green eggs and ham,” flavored and colored with pesto sauce. As for me, my outlook on children’s menus started to change at some point — probably around the 102nd or 103rd time my children ordered chicken fingers with French fries. Even if the chicken fingers were good ones, made from real breast meat rather than pulverized and remolded chik-a-bits, I was disturbed by their ubiquity and their hold on my kids, who are 11 and 8 years old. I noticed that accommodationist chefs were making chicken fingers available in Italian, Chinese and Japanese restaurants, where chicken fingers aren’t even culinarily justifiable. I perceived that my children’s chicken-finger meals outside the home were informing their eating habits inside the home, where they were getting more finicky. I heard from other parents that they were experiencing the same thing. In short, I came to the realization that America is in the grips of a nefarious chicken-finger pandemic, in which a blandly tasty foodstuff has somehow become the de facto official nibble of our young. For all the fretfulness I’m obligated to express over the health implications of this pandemic — chicken fingers are often fried, and are often accompanied by fries — I’m much more rankled by its palate-deadening potential. Far from being an advance, I’ve concluded, the standard children’s menu is regressive, encouraging children (and their misguided parents) to believe that there is a rigidly delineated “kids’ cuisine” that exists entirely apart from grown-up cuisine. I grew up eating what my parents ate, at home and at restaurants. Sometimes, the experience could be revelatory, as when I tried fish chowder for the first time on a trip to Boston, or when my mother attempted ’s Soupe au Pistou. Other times, dinner was merely dinner, not transcendent but comfortingly routine. And then there were those bummer meals that I just didn’t care for, like stuffed cabbage, but that I endured because my parents offered no other choice. It was all experiential grist for the mill, and it made me — like millions of other Americans of my generation who were raised the same way — a fairly adventurous eater with a built-in sense of dietary balance. It pains me that many children now grow up eating little besides golden-brown logs of kid food, especially in a time when the quality, variety and availability of good ingredients is better than ever. Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 19) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. These Kids Never Say 'Yech!' Food Alarm Is Supersized At Center of a Clash, Rowdy Children in Coffee Shops THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; McDonald's says it's time to turn off the TV. Now stand up and touch your toes. Repeat. Next Article in Dining & Wine (1 of 19) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky 50% off Times delivery. Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/30/dining/30wate.html?ex=1338177600&en=fd055f1a76ac4581&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water - the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Jim Wilson/The Panisse, Alice Waters&#146;s restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., helped lead the way with house-made sparkling water. May 30, 2007 DON’T bother asking for Fiji, San Pellegrino or any other designer water at either Incanto, a restaurant that opened in San Francisco in 2002, or at Poggio, which opened in Sausalito, Calif., two years later. Diani for The in Santa Monica, Calif., is offering filtered tap water to diners. All their water comes out of the tap. It’s filtered before it reaches the table, but it’s from the public water system, just the same. “Serving our local water in reusable carafes makes more sense for the environment than manufacturing thousands of single-use glass bottles for someone to use once and throw away,” Incanto explains at its Web site. These two Bay Area restaurants were pretty much alone in kicking the bottle habit until Alice Waters, the godmother of things organic, sustainable and local, banned bottled still water at Chez Panisse in Berkeley last year and started serving only house-made sparkling water this year. Then the press took notice. Now other California restaurants, like Nopa in San Francisco, are following suit. Even an ice cream shop — Ici, in Berkeley — has jumped on the non-bottled-water wagon. And now, with a little push from Ms. Waters, an important New York City restaurant is coming on board. It’s a big move in the restaurant industry, which, if you extrapolate from the amount of water it buys, takes in at least $200 million to $350 million from bottled water a year, according to the restaurant consultant Clark Wolf. The “eat local” movement first became popular in California, so it makes sense that “drink local” is catching on there as a way to reduce the environmental costs of manufacturing and transporting bottles of water, as well as the mountains of plastic that end up in landfills. But soon the owners of Del Posto in New York, the most elegant and expensive of the restaurants in the empire of Joseph Bastianich and Mario Batali, will be joining the nascent movement — once they decide on the proper containers for their filtered still and carbonated tap water. Etched on the glass will be an explanation of why bottled water is no longer available. “Filling cargo ships with water and sending it hundreds and thousands of miles to get it around the world seems ridiculous,” Mr. Bastianich said. “With all the other things we do for sustainability, it makes sense.” He added that of all their restaurants, Del Posto was best able to afford the change. When Maury Rubin opened the first Birdbath Neighborhood Green Bakery in the East Village in 2005 and the second in Greenwich Village last month, banning bottled water was a no-brainer. “It was actually an easy decision,” Mr. Rubin said. “Bottled water is not great for the environment.” Other restaurants, including the Farmers Diner in Quechee, Vt., have made the switch, but they have not made waves. Tod Murphy, who owns the diner and has gained a certain celebrity in the food world for serving local products, stopped ordering bottled water in February. “It makes no sense, because we have great well water,” he said, “but I had no idea I was on the cutting edge.” For almost everyone else the idea is still in the talking stage, in part because there’s a big profit in bottled water, even though some of it comes out of a tap before it goes into the bottle. Restaurants buy it for $1 or $2 and sell it for as much as $8, or even more, giving it the highest markup of any item on the menu. Most restaurants making their own sparkling water are not charging for it. Geoffrey Zakarian, the chef and an owner of Country in Manhattan, described the ban as “a worthy thing to do.” But he added, “You have to make a profit.” “Alice is very commendable and extraordinary, and we look to her,” Mr. Zakarian said, “but I think she gets carried away sometimes.” He wondered where he would make up the lost revenue if he eliminated bottled water. “Serving tap water is a great idea that we’d all love to be able to do, but it’s not going to happen all at once.” Tom Colicchio, the chef and an owner of Craft restaurant and several spinoffs, was incredulous that restaurants would contemplate such a change. “This is the first I’ve heard of it,” he said. “Why would you do that — not from a money standpoint, but from a service and hospitality standpoint? Fifty to 60 percent prefer bottled water, especially sparkling.” Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 19) &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Next Article in Dining & Wine (2 of 19) &#x00bb; When Should a Kid Start Kindergarten? Your Money: More Advice Graduates Don&#8217;t Want to Hear The Other Machu Picchu Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia 36 Hours in Florence Survey: Read Any Good Books Lately? Editorial: Dick Cheney Rules Choice Tables | Barcelona: Five Catalan Stars, With Small Plates and Long Menus The Superfabulous World of Rufus Wainwright Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal For Pornographers, Internet's Virtues Turn to Vices Papers Portray Plot as More Talk Than Action Iraq's Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory Fever Builds for iPhone (Anxiety Too) Bush's Push on Immigration Tests His Base The Democrats' Second 2008 Presidential Debate 4 Accused of Plot to Blow Up Facilities at Kennedy Airport U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky 50% off Times delivery. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/03/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/03vinesli.html Sauvignon Blancs by the Dozen - Blancs by the Dozen HOWARD G. GOLDBERG Published: June 3, 2007 A recent sampling of a dozen Long Island sauvignon blancs showed that they easily compete with local chardonnays for meals and perhaps have an edge as aperitifs. Generally, they go nicely with seafood. Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey » Sauvignon flourishes on the East End. These quintessentially summer whites should never be iced; they are maximally expressive when moderately chilled. They tend to be most appealing when produced in steel tanks or in tanks plus neutral barrels that impart virtually no woody flavors. This approach preserves intact their aromas, fruitiness and zest. Sauvignon blanc has long been a strength at Castello di Borghese, Channing Daughters Winery, Jamesport Vineyards, Macari, Palmer and Raphael, varying in quality with the vintage. In the tasting, Raphael’s 2006 ($22) was brilliant, a tribute to the vineyard manager, Steve Mudd, and the winemaker, Richard Olsen-Harbich. Perfumed, vibrant, tangy, juicy, citric, complex — it has everything. Jamesport’s world-class 2006 ($21.95) finished in second place. Powerfully herbaceous, full of zip and flash, it is a satisfying mouthful. Channing Daughters’ 2006 ($20), from 91 percent sauvignon and 9 percent chardonnay grapes harvested in the Mudd Vineyard in Southold, finished third; it is very aromatic, deep, broad and complex. Sharing fourth place, Shinn’s 2006 First Fruit ($23), 96 percent sauvignon and 4 percent sémillon, tasted of grapefruit and figs. Macari’s 2006 ($18.99) is a crowd-pleaser; light, a bit herblike and palate-cleansing, it delivers hints of tropical fruits, especially melon. Several wines occupied the next rung down. Palmer’s 2006 ($16.99) was fresh, amiable and piquant with a strong hint of apple. Paumanok’s 2006 ($22), somewhat tropical and appetite-quickening, was equally pleasant. Another Channing Daughters version, the regular 2006 ($24), 82 percent sauvignon and 18 percent chardonnay, was full of subtleties. Martha Clara’s 2006 ($16.99) was light, smooth and crisp. Borghese’s 2006 ($17.99), suggesting a chardonnay’s girth, was agreeable and workmanlike. Duck Walk’s 2004 ($12.95) resembled decent carafe wine. Pindar’s 2005 ($12.99) was simply vin ordinaire. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. LONG ISLAND VINES; New Tastes From the North Fork LONG ISLAND VINES; You Say RosÃ©s, They Say Rosati LONG ISLAND VINES; Reds Heightened by a Warm Spell LONG ISLAND VINES; Reds That Belie North Fork Roots More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial The
