http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Boy nets police dog bite payout Jailed chef back home from India School corridor used for lessons MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Phones allowed for Ten Tors trek Inquiry call over college switch Royal couple's SW visit finished MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6638591.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair's son joins teaching scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:43 GMT 11:43 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair's son joins teaching scheme Nicky Blair will also receive training in business skills One of the prime minister's sons, Nicky Blair, is to try his hand at teaching after graduating from Oxford this year. He will be joining the Teach First programme which puts "high calibre" graduates into challenging English secondary schools for two years. They are expected to qualify as teachers after the first year, but also get business training. Mr Blair, 21, is about to take final exams in a modern history degree and will then have six weeks' training. Teach First is supported by businesses and not-for-profit organisations. Those taking part are expected to achieve qualified teacher status after a year but also get training in business skills to enable them to move on to other careers - though not all do. It began in London in 2002 and has since been expanded to Greater Manchester and the Midlands. Teach First said in a statement that Nicky Blair would be one of 300 recruits this year. E-mail this to a friend 'Teach first' scheme is expanding 31 Mar 06 | Education High-flying teachers to graduate 07 Jul 05 | Education Top graduates 'improving schools' 09 Feb 05 | Education Row over fast-track teacher call 24 Nov 04 | Scotland Training and Development Agency for Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6637407.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Teachers' threat over class sizes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:05 GMT 00:05 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers' threat over class sizes The union says the executive broke a pledge to cut class sizes Scotland's largest teaching union could be asked to vote on proposals for industrial action to cut class sizes. The Edinburgh branch of the EIS hopes to win backing for the move at the union's annual general meeting, to be held in Perth in June. It believes the previous Scottish Executive reneged on a promise to cut class sizes to 20 in key subject areas. The executive denied this and said it remained committed to achieving the target, albeit with more flexibility. A commitment on class sizes formed part of Labour's coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats after the 2003 Holyrood election. The aim was to cut S1 and S2 maths and English class sizes to a maximum of 20 in a drive to improve numeracy and literacy. However, in February this year, it emerged that class sizes of up to 29 would be allowed if the overall average could be kept to 20. The executive claimed the move would give teachers more flexibility but the EIS said this would compromise standards. Now delegates at the union's conference in Perth will be asked to consider industrial action on the issue. E-mail this to a friend Executive drops class size pledge 19 Feb 07 | Scotland Council in school target concerns 20 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central Heads warn of class size increase 19 Jun 06 | Scotland Action over class numbers looms 08 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632479.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Creative skills urged for primary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 13:18 GMT 14:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Creative skills urged for primary BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Practical skills should be taught in primary schools, says Mick Brookes Primary pupils should learn skills such as carpentry and cooking, say head teachers. Mick Brookes, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said 11-year-olds spent too much time preparing for Sats tests. Mr Brookes said pupils should be able to develop practical and creative skills before leaving primary school. And he warned of "an army of the unemployable" if more was not done to engage teenagers in education. In his closing address to delegates at the NAHT's annual conference in Bournemouth, Mr Brookes said: "Our primary children should be freed up from the narrow curriculum forced on them and able to develop fledgling specialised skills." Mr Brookes spoke of how much 11-year-old pupils at his former schools had gained from a parent, who was a professional carpenter, coming into class and teaching them new skills. He said older primary pupils could learn to cook basic healthy menus and be able to this knowledge home. Basic mechanics and bicycle maintenance could also be covered. "These are the sort of skills we're missing out and losing," he said. "The earlier children are introduced to those skills the better. We should be building those skills at a very early age and then following them through into Key Stage 3." 'Army of the unemployable' Mr Brookes told delegates more must be done to tackle disaffection and resentment amongst teenagers who had not been successful at school. "These young people, who have been denied the taste of success in their school careers, vote with their feet at the earliest opportunity. "We cannot allow a whole army of the nation's youth to leave school with nothing to show for those 11 years except disaffections and resentment. "The current number of unskilled jobs in this country is estimated at about three million today. The effects of technology may well mean a huge shrinkage of this employment market. "When this happens, we will not simply have an army of the unemployed, we will have an army of the unemployable - a huge threat to social cohesion." E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/6637407.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Teachers' threat over class sizes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:05 GMT 00:05 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers' threat over class sizes The union says the executive broke a pledge to cut class sizes Scotland's largest teaching union could be asked to vote on proposals for industrial action to cut class sizes. The Edinburgh branch of the EIS hopes to win backing for the move at the union's annual general meeting, to be held in Perth in June. It believes the previous Scottish Executive reneged on a promise to cut class sizes to 20 in key subject areas. The executive denied this and said it remained committed to achieving the target, albeit with more flexibility. A commitment on class sizes formed part of Labour's coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats after the 2003 Holyrood election. The aim was to cut S1 and S2 maths and English class sizes to a maximum of 20 in a drive to improve numeracy and literacy. However, in February this year, it emerged that class sizes of up to 29 would be allowed if the overall average could be kept to 20. The executive claimed the move would give teachers more flexibility but the EIS said this would compromise standards. Now delegates at the union's conference in Perth will be asked to consider industrial action on the issue. E-mail this to a friend Executive drops class size pledge 19 Feb 07 | Scotland Council in school target concerns 20 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central Heads warn of class size increase 19 Jun 06 | Scotland Action over class numbers looms 08 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6638591.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair's son joins teaching scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:43 GMT 11:43 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair's son joins teaching scheme Nicky Blair will also receive training in business skills One of the prime minister's sons, Nicky Blair, is to try his hand at teaching after graduating from Oxford this year. He will be joining the Teach First programme which puts "high calibre" graduates into challenging English secondary schools for two years. They are expected to qualify as teachers after the first year, but also get business training. Mr Blair, 21, is about to take final exams in a modern history degree and will then have six weeks' training. Teach First is supported by businesses and not-for-profit organisations. Those taking part are expected to achieve qualified teacher status after a year but also get training in business skills to enable them to move on to other careers - though not all do. It began in London in 2002 and has since been expanded to Greater Manchester and the Midlands. Teach First said in a statement that Nicky Blair would be one of 300 recruits this year. E-mail this to a friend 'Teach first' scheme is expanding 31 Mar 06 | Education High-flying teachers to graduate 07 Jul 05 | Education Top graduates 'improving schools' 09 Feb 05 | Education Row over fast-track teacher call 24 Nov 04 | Scotland Training and Development Agency for Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6624489.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Warning over workforce black hole Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 09:59 GMT 10:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning over workforce black hole BBC News education reporter Millions of adults are economically inactive A demographic time bomb will lead to two million unfilled jobs unless those who choose not to work retrain and join the workforce, an expert claims. Government skills adviser Chris Humphries says birth rate falls in the 1990s will lead to a workforce "black hole", unless urgent action is taken. This can be filled only by targeting hard-to-reach, out-of-work people who do not receive benefits, he says. The government said it was aware of the changing demographics of the workforce. Economists argue that each decade a minimum of an extra 1.3 million people need to join the workforce to ensure economic growth. The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap Over the past decade half of these jobs have been filled by young workers coming through the education system, and the rest by women returning to work, immigrants and there being fewer long-term sick people. But population projections by government actuaries show there will be 600,000 fewer potential young workers aged between 16 and 24 by 2020 than there are now, and 700,000 fewer than in 2010. This is because the birth rate fell in the mid-1990s to below what was needed to ensure population stability. This means there are likely to be two million unfilled jobs in the British economy by 2020, says Mr Humphries, who is also the director general of qualifications group City and Guilds. He says the government-commissioned report into skills by Sir Sandy Leitch, which called for a major increase in the skills of the existing workforce by 2020, neglected to address this issue. "The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap so that the gaps in the workforce are occupied in 2020 by people with the right level of skills." He argues that the only answer is to bring a proportion of the millions of adults who are not currently in the workforce or in receipt of benefits. "It has to be done - or the economy will not move forward. We won't get the tax receipts," he added. The Leitch report had been right to try to call for as many young people who were not in education, employment or training to improve their skills, he said. But this along with workforce training would not be sufficient. "Leitch hasn't talked about that issue at all. "This is a really important issue. Ensuring we have the workforce we need in 2020 is about ensuring that you and I live well in old age and our children have access to the education and services they deserve in a world that's becoming much tougher. "We have got the policies coming into force around young people, those in work and those who are registered unemployed but we do not have the policy initiatives in place for those who are not employed - that will be necessary to produce the economic growth needed from 2020," he added. The only answer was to campaign positively, to offer financial and tax incentives to the non-employed so that they were encouraged and incentivised to retrain and come back to work, Mr Humphries said. A spokeswoman for the Department for Education and Skills said it was wrong to assume that changing age patterns would create a "shortfall", as the workforce the UK needed was not a fixed quantity. "But Leitch does recognise that training the flow of young people entering the labour market cannot be enough to meet our future skills needs; nor do we believe that inward migration can ever be more than part of the answer. "People without jobs will never achieve sustained employment without the opportunity to up-skill; Leitch recognised this in his recommendations for integrating employment and skills." She added that the workforce could be expanded by extending people's working lives and helping the economically inactive into sustainable employment. E-mail this to a friend UK staff 'need time off to train' 17 Nov 06 | Business 21 Nov 06 | Education Skills training 'needs shake-up' 05 Dec 06 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6632479.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Creative skills urged for primary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 13:18 GMT 14:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Creative skills urged for primary BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Practical skills should be taught in primary schools, says Mick Brookes Primary pupils should learn skills such as carpentry and cooking, say head teachers. Mick Brookes, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said 11-year-olds spent too much time preparing for Sats tests. Mr Brookes said pupils should be able to develop practical and creative skills before leaving primary school. And he warned of "an army of the unemployable" if more was not done to engage teenagers in education. In his closing address to delegates at the NAHT's annual conference in Bournemouth, Mr Brookes said: "Our primary children should be freed up from the narrow curriculum forced on them and able to develop fledgling specialised skills." Mr Brookes spoke of how much 11-year-old pupils at his former schools had gained from a parent, who was a professional carpenter, coming into class and teaching them new skills. He said older primary pupils could learn to cook basic healthy menus and be able to this knowledge home. Basic mechanics and bicycle maintenance could also be covered. "These are the sort of skills we're missing out and losing," he said. "The earlier children are introduced to those skills the better. We should be building those skills at a very early age and then following them through into Key Stage 3." 'Army of the unemployable' Mr Brookes told delegates more must be done to tackle disaffection and resentment amongst teenagers who had not been successful at school. "These young people, who have been denied the taste of success in their school careers, vote with their feet at the earliest opportunity. "We cannot allow a whole army of the nation's youth to leave school with nothing to show for those 11 years except disaffections and resentment. "The current number of unskilled jobs in this country is estimated at about three million today. The effects of technology may well mean a huge shrinkage of this employment market. "When this happens, we will not simply have an army of the unemployed, we will have an army of the unemployable - a huge threat to social cohesion." E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6624489.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Warning over workforce black hole Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 09:59 GMT 10:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning over workforce black hole BBC News education reporter Millions of adults are economically inactive A demographic time bomb will lead to two million unfilled jobs unless those who choose not to work retrain and join the workforce, an expert claims. Government skills adviser Chris Humphries says birth rate falls in the 1990s will lead to a workforce "black hole", unless urgent action is taken. This can be filled only by targeting hard-to-reach, out-of-work people who do not receive benefits, he says. The government said it was aware of the changing demographics of the workforce. Economists argue that each decade a minimum of an extra 1.3 million people need to join the workforce to ensure economic growth. The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap Over the past decade half of these jobs have been filled by young workers coming through the education system, and the rest by women returning to work, immigrants and there being fewer long-term sick people. But population projections by government actuaries show there will be 600,000 fewer potential young workers aged between 16 and 24 by 2020 than there are now, and 700,000 fewer than in 2010. This is because the birth rate fell in the mid-1990s to below what was needed to ensure population stability. This means there are likely to be two million unfilled jobs in the British economy by 2020, says Mr Humphries, who is also the director general of qualifications group City and Guilds. He says the government-commissioned report into skills by Sir Sandy Leitch, which called for a major increase in the skills of the existing workforce by 2020, neglected to address this issue. "The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap so that the gaps in the workforce are occupied in 2020 by people with the right level of skills." He argues that the only answer is to bring a proportion of the millions of adults who are not currently in the workforce or in receipt of benefits. "It has to be done - or the economy will not move forward. We won't get the tax receipts," he added. The Leitch report had been right to try to call for as many young people who were not in education, employment or training to improve their skills, he said. But this along with workforce training would not be sufficient. "Leitch hasn't talked about that issue at all. "This is a really important issue. Ensuring we have the workforce we need in 2020 is about ensuring that you and I live well in old age and our children have access to the education and services they deserve in a world that's becoming much tougher. "We have got the policies coming into force around young people, those in work and those who are registered unemployed but we do not have the policy initiatives in place for those who are not employed - that will be necessary to produce the economic growth needed from 2020," he added. The only answer was to campaign positively, to offer financial and tax incentives to the non-employed so that they were encouraged and incentivised to retrain and come back to work, Mr Humphries said. A spokeswoman for the Department for Education and Skills said it was wrong to assume that changing age patterns would create a "shortfall", as the workforce the UK needed was not a fixed quantity. "But Leitch does recognise that training the flow of young people entering the labour market cannot be enough to meet our future skills needs; nor do we believe that inward migration can ever be more than part of the answer. "People without jobs will never achieve sustained employment without the opportunity to up-skill; Leitch recognised this in his recommendations for integrating employment and skills." She added that the workforce could be expanded by extending people's working lives and helping the economically inactive into sustainable employment. E-mail this to a friend UK staff 'need time off to train' 17 Nov 06 | Business 21 Nov 06 | Education Skills training 'needs shake-up' 05 Dec 06 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6637321.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Schools screening for TB begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 05:49 GMT 06:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Schools screening for TB begins Pupils at Gorseinon Junior School are among those screened Screening of 172 pupils in two Swansea schools for TB is underway after a member of staff and her three children were diagnosed with the infection. Pupils at Gorseinon Infants and Junior Schools are being offered a skin test for the disease. The National Public Health Service for Wales (NPHS) said the chances of the infection spreading within the school were very low. The four diagnosed with TB are said to be responding well to treatment. The teacher at Gorseinon Infants School has been off work since the end of March, while her children were diagnosed with TB last week. Mac Walapu, of the NPHS, said the screening for TB was normal procedure in such cases. TB can be spread from person to person He said: "The test involves injecting a small amount of purified sterile protein just under the skin in the forearm. "The test can be read two to three days later. We will be seeing every tested child later this week to read the reaction. "A positive test does not necessarily mean the child has TB. A positive result can be caused by a reaction to a previous BCG vaccination or to exposure to TB at any time in the past. "It can also be caused by exposure to other germs similar to TB which are mostly harmless." The NPHS said there would be no final results available this week and children at the two schools would be monitored until the end of June. Dr Walapu added: "We have had very good support from the education authority and staff in the school. Parents have also been very co-operative and supportive." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region TB tests offered at city schools 02 May 07 | South West Wales Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health Older TB vaccines 'work better' 18 Mar 07 | Health Drug resistant TB 'more severe' 16 Dec 06 | Health Migrants 'carry disease burden' 15 Nov 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Six children in positive TB tests Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull Rugby amputee thanks well-wishers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486813.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Faith fuels home education boom Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 23 March 2007, 17:46 GMT E-mail this to a friend Faith fuels home education boom Jack likes the flexibility in being taught at home Thirteen-year-old Jack August sits on a small sofa in a cozy, carpeted room, reading aloud from a book about knights. All the while his playful golden retriever, Mighty, tries to sneak up on the sofa when Jack isn't looking. Jack's mother, Sue, sits alongside, asking him questions about the story. Earlier in the day, the two performed a science experiment together, using the sofa cushions and a ball fetched from the garage. This is a just another day for Jack, who is one of the two million students in the US who are homeschooled - taught by their parents at home. And he loves it. "I like the flexibility. If an opportunity to play tennis or anything else pops up I can do it and just make up the schoolwork later. "And with the one-on-one instruction, it seems you can move ahead quicker and be at a higher level of learning." And yes, says Jack, he does socialise with other children. "I have friends from church, from sports, and I do know other local homeschool kids." Until the 1970s, homeschooling was more of a necessity than a choice for American parents. Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values Homeschooling mother Sue August It took place mostly in rural areas, where schools could be long distances away and children were needed to help out with the work at home. But after the publication of several controversial books that criticised institutional schooling, the modern homeschool movement in the US began, with thousands of suburban families joining in. Still, it was not until recently that the numbers of homeschoolers really exploded - nearly doubling in the last six years. The National Home Education Research Institute (a pro-homeschool advocacy group) estimates that that around 1.5 million children were educated at home in 2000, but in 2006, the number was closer to 2.5 million. This increase is due, in large part, to the rise of Christian homeschooling - parents' choosing to teach children at home from a Biblical point of view. Now there is a vast and highly organised network of Christian homeschooling advocacy groups, legal advisers and curriculum material. Sue August says she and her husband decided to homeschool Jack even before he was born. Nothing beats schooling, some say "Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values to our son." Her husband Mark says parents can impart something that teachers can not. "Character is just as important as academics. And so what we're looking for are character training issues and we would rather do that ourselves." The Augusts use a Christian-based curriculum for teaching their son. Legally, they can teach him whatever they want. I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling Homeschool regulations vary state by state in the US, but New Jersey, where the Augusts live, has some of the most lenient. There are no requirements for attendance, training, testing, or even the use of books. While that may seem highly unorthodox to many people, Mark August says homeschooling is just a different way of looking at the world. "I understand why people look at the lack of regulation and are taken aback. But who is ultimately responsible for raising the child - is it the parent or the state?" Mark asked. "From a Biblical standpoint, it's the parents' responsibility. Parents are going to act in the best interest of their children a majority of the time." But Wendy Puriefoy, president of the advocacy group Public Education Network, in Washington DC, questions the ability of parents to provide an adequate environment for maturing as well as learning. "I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling," she said. "I worry about the lack of socialisation for youngsters outside of their families. "I worry about the access to other kinds of non-academic resources that youngsters have in public schools that you might not have in a homeschooling situation." Worlds away from Jack's comfortable sofa, a group of teenagers in a New York City public school history class are gearing up for a debate over the ideal form of government. The classroom is lively and noisy as students hunch over their institutional-style metal desks to prepare their statements and re-check their facts. When the debate finally begins the different voices, accents, opinions and academic aptitudes are apparent. But all the students are participating in their own way. Homeschool advocates might argue that this way of teaching will slow down the brighter children or prevent the slower learners from catching up. But the students in this classroom say they would not have it any other way. "When you're at school, you're pushed. Competition brings out the best in you," said 11th-grade student Frank, adding philosophically: "The most enlightened people are those who are enlightened by others." Another teenager from the class, Julia, points out what she sees as another benefit of going to school. "I wouldn't want to be around my Mom all day! "No offence, I love her, you know - but this is a nice little break away from her!" E-mail this to a friend Home schooling numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education National Home Education Research Institute Home Education Advisory Service Action for Home Education A to Z Home's Cool The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Midnight News Friday, 11 May 2007, 20:00 GMT 21:00 UK Exam papers tagged to beat cheats An exam board introduces new hi-tech methods to try to combat cheating in its GCSEs and A-levels. Exam board tags exam papers 'No re-sits' after exam theft Summer school programme grows A major expansion in summer schools for gifted and talented children is announced. City teachers could get more cash The education secretary says teachers at inner city schools should be offered "golden hellos". School corridor used for lessons Inquiry call over college switch Toddlers to get help with talking Action after 'taped mouths' claim Going to school 'not compulsory' Blair's son joins teaching scheme LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Technology could stop exam cheating Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover Some key players pass judgement on the Blair classroom What have the Blair years brought education? Teachers' threat over class sizes Learning to teach toughness Arts students 'plan careers less' Schools screening for TB begins 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Warning of workforce black hole Twinning plan to stop race divide Creative skills urged for primary Heads warn of exam 'meltdown' Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Faith fuels home education boom Toddlers to get help with talking Going to school 'not compulsory' Arts students 'plan careers less' Sats, Cats and Pips Schools repeatedly test pupils even when they do not have to How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES See students making their own news and register your school ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Boy nets police dog bite payout Jailed chef back home from India School corridor used for lessons MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6486813.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Faith fuels home education boom Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 23 March 2007, 17:46 GMT E-mail this to a friend Faith fuels home education boom Jack likes the flexibility in being taught at home Thirteen-year-old Jack August sits on a small sofa in a cozy, carpeted room, reading aloud from a book about knights. All the while his playful golden retriever, Mighty, tries to sneak up on the sofa when Jack isn't looking. Jack's mother, Sue, sits alongside, asking him questions about the story. Earlier in the day, the two performed a science experiment together, using the sofa cushions and a ball fetched from the garage. This is a just another day for Jack, who is one of the two million students in the US who are homeschooled - taught by their parents at home. And he loves it. "I like the flexibility. If an opportunity to play tennis or anything else pops up I can do it and just make up the schoolwork later. "And with the one-on-one instruction, it seems you can move ahead quicker and be at a higher level of learning." And yes, says Jack, he does socialise with other children. "I have friends from church, from sports, and I do know other local homeschool kids." Until the 1970s, homeschooling was more of a necessity than a choice for American parents. Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values Homeschooling mother Sue August It took place mostly in rural areas, where schools could be long distances away and children were needed to help out with the work at home. But after the publication of several controversial books that criticised institutional schooling, the modern homeschool movement in the US began, with thousands of suburban families joining in. Still, it was not until recently that the numbers of homeschoolers really exploded - nearly doubling in the last six years. The National Home Education Research Institute (a pro-homeschool advocacy group) estimates that that around 1.5 million children were educated at home in 2000, but in 2006, the number was closer to 2.5 million. This increase is due, in large part, to the rise of Christian homeschooling - parents' choosing to teach children at home from a Biblical point of view. Now there is a vast and highly organised network of Christian homeschooling advocacy groups, legal advisers and curriculum material. Sue August says she and her husband decided to homeschool Jack even before he was born. Nothing beats schooling, some say "Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values to our son." Her husband Mark says parents can impart something that teachers can not. "Character is just as important as academics. And so what we're looking for are character training issues and we would rather do that ourselves." The Augusts use a Christian-based curriculum for teaching their son. Legally, they can teach him whatever they want. I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling Homeschool regulations vary state by state in the US, but New Jersey, where the Augusts live, has some of the most lenient. There are no requirements for attendance, training, testing, or even the use of books. While that may seem highly unorthodox to many people, Mark August says homeschooling is just a different way of looking at the world. "I understand why people look at the lack of regulation and are taken aback. But who is ultimately responsible for raising the child - is it the parent or the state?" Mark asked. "From a Biblical standpoint, it's the parents' responsibility. Parents are going to act in the best interest of their children a majority of the time." But Wendy Puriefoy, president of the advocacy group Public Education Network, in Washington DC, questions the ability of parents to provide an adequate environment for maturing as well as learning. "I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling," she said. "I worry about the lack of socialisation for youngsters outside of their families. "I worry about the access to other kinds of non-academic resources that youngsters have in public schools that you might not have in a homeschooling situation." Worlds away from Jack's comfortable sofa, a group of teenagers in a New York City public school history class are gearing up for a debate over the ideal form of government. The classroom is lively and noisy as students hunch over their institutional-style metal desks to prepare their statements and re-check their facts. When the debate finally begins the different voices, accents, opinions and academic aptitudes are apparent. But all the students are participating in their own way. Homeschool advocates might argue that this way of teaching will slow down the brighter children or prevent the slower learners from catching up. But the students in this classroom say they would not have it any other way. "When you're at school, you're pushed. Competition brings out the best in you," said 11th-grade student Frank, adding philosophically: "The most enlightened people are those who are enlightened by others." Another teenager from the class, Julia, points out what she sees as another benefit of going to school. "I wouldn't want to be around my Mom all day! "No offence, I love her, you know - but this is a nice little break away from her!" E-mail this to a friend Home schooling numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education National Home Education Research Institute Home Education Advisory Service Action for Home Education A to Z Home's Cool The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/south_west/6637321.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Schools screening for TB begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 05:49 GMT 06:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Schools screening for TB begins Pupils at Gorseinon Junior School are among those screened Screening of 172 pupils in two Swansea schools for TB is underway after a member of staff and her three children were diagnosed with the infection. Pupils at Gorseinon Infants and Junior Schools are being offered a skin test for the disease. The National Public Health Service for Wales (NPHS) said the chances of the infection spreading within the school were very low. The four diagnosed with TB are said to be responding well to treatment. The teacher at Gorseinon Infants School has been off work since the end of March, while her children were diagnosed with TB last week. Mac Walapu, of the NPHS, said the screening for TB was normal procedure in such cases. TB can be spread from person to person He said: "The test involves injecting a small amount of purified sterile protein just under the skin in the forearm. "The test can be read two to three days later. We will be seeing every tested child later this week to read the reaction. "A positive test does not necessarily mean the child has TB. A positive result can be caused by a reaction to a previous BCG vaccination or to exposure to TB at any time in the past. "It can also be caused by exposure to other germs similar to TB which are mostly harmless." The NPHS said there would be no final results available this week and children at the two schools would be monitored until the end of June. Dr Walapu added: "We have had very good support from the education authority and staff in the school. Parents have also been very co-operative and supportive." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region TB tests offered at city schools 02 May 07 | South West Wales Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health Older TB vaccines 'work better' 18 Mar 07 | Health Drug resistant TB 'more severe' 16 Dec 06 | Health Migrants 'carry disease burden' 15 Nov 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Six children in positive TB tests Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull Rugby amputee thanks well-wishers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Phones allowed for Ten Tors trek Inquiry call over college switch Royal couple's SW visit finished MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Google searches web's dark side Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Boy nets police dog bite payout Jailed chef back home from India School corridor used for lessons MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Phones allowed for Ten Tors trek Inquiry call over college switch Royal couple's SW visit finished MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6638591.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair's son joins teaching scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:43 GMT 11:43 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair's son joins teaching scheme Nicky Blair will also receive training in business skills One of the prime minister's sons, Nicky Blair, is to try his hand at teaching after graduating from Oxford this year. He will be joining the Teach First programme which puts "high calibre" graduates into challenging English secondary schools for two years. They are expected to qualify as teachers after the first year, but also get business training. Mr Blair, 21, is about to take final exams in a modern history degree and will then have six weeks' training. Teach First is supported by businesses and not-for-profit organisations. Those taking part are expected to achieve qualified teacher status after a year but also get training in business skills to enable them to move on to other careers - though not all do. It began in London in 2002 and has since been expanded to Greater Manchester and the Midlands. Teach First said in a statement that Nicky Blair would be one of 300 recruits this year. E-mail this to a friend 'Teach first' scheme is expanding 31 Mar 06 | Education High-flying teachers to graduate 07 Jul 05 | Education Top graduates 'improving schools' 09 Feb 05 | Education Row over fast-track teacher call 24 Nov 04 | Scotland Training and Development Agency for Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/rss/4498287.stm	BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it BBC RSS Feed: Standard Licence Terms By downloading a BBC RSS Feed ( "BBC Feed") from the British Broadcasting Corporation ("BBC") you agree to be bound by the terms set out below (the "Standard Licence Terms"). These Standard Licence Terms may be updated by the BBC from time to time. Please review these Standard Licence Terms each time you download a BBC Feed. Your download and/or use of a BBC Feed indicates your agreement to these Standard Licence Terms. 1.1 Subject to the terms of this Agreement the BBC grants you a non-transferrable, non-sublicensable, royalty free non-exclusive licence to display on your website ("Site") the headlines, active links or other source identifiers and other information or materials that you specifically select to receive from the BBC via the BBC Feed ("BBC Content"). 1.2 All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in and to the BBC Feed shall remain the property of the BBC. 1.3 Nothing in these Standard Licence Terms grants you any right to use the BBC trade mark on your Site or elsewhere. 2. Use of BBC Content 2.1 You may not use the Feed or display any BBC Content on any Site that is a web site that is excluded by the BBC (scroll down for the list of Excluded Websites as may be amended by the BBC from time to time). 2.2 YOU MUST ENSURE THAT ALL BBC CONTENT ON YOUR SITE HAS AN ACCREDITATION TO THE BBC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES FROM TIME TO TIME (SCROLL DOWN FOR THE BBC ACCREDITATION GUIDELINES AS MAY BE AMENDED BY THE BBC FROM TIME TO TIME). 2.3 YOU MAY NOT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY CHARGE USERS SPECIFICALLY FOR ACCESSING BBC CONTENT OR OTHERWISE COMMERCIALISE SUCH CONTENT, NOR ATTEMPT TO RE-SELL THE BBC CONTENT IN ANY WAY. 2.4 Where possible you must create a functional link back to the BBC News story(ies) summarised by the BBC Content . If you are displaying the BBC Feed where a functional link back to the BBC is not possible, you must display on-screen the URL from which the BBC Content can be obtained (scroll down to the accreditation section below.) You may not directly or indirectly change, edit, add to or produce summaries of the BBC Content or any content on the BBC website nor place any full-story BBC content in an HTML frame-set. 2.5 You may not directly or indirectly suggest any endorsement or approval by the BBC of your Site or any non-BBC entity, product or content or any views expressed within your site or service. 2.6 You acknowledge that the BBC has absolute editorial control over all BBC Content and you accept that the BBC is editorially independent and that the editorial integrity of the BBC Content is the sole responsibility of the BBC. 2.7 Should you receive any enquiries which relate to the BBC or the BBC Content you should promptly refer such enquiries to www.bbc.co.uk/info/contactus. 3. Warranties & Liability 3.1 You warrant to the BBC that: (i) you have fully complied with, and shall continue to comply fully with, all applicable laws and regulations; (ii) the Site shall contain no material which is libellous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or which brings the BBC into disrepute, or which is in breach of any third party intellectual property rights; and (iii) users of the Site shall be required to comply with terms that are equivalent to the Standard Licence Terms in relation to their use of BBC Content. 3.2 The BBC Feed is made available by the BBC on an "as is" and "as available" basis and the BBC gives no warranty of any kind in relation to the BBC Feed, the BBC Content, or any content on the BBC website. The BBC disclaims all implied warranties, including but not limited to the implied warranties of satisfactory quality, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, compatibility, and accuracy regarding the BBC Content, the BBC Feed and the BBC website and any content thereon. 3.3 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW THE BBC EXCLUDES ALL LIABILITY TO YOU FOR ANY LOSS OR DAMAGE HOWSOEVER ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY LIABILITY ARISING IN RELATION TO THE BBC FEED, THE BBC CONTENT OR ANY CONTENT ON THE BBC WEBSITE, ANY VIRUS OR OTHER CONTAMINATION OR ANY UNAVAILABILITY OF BBC CONTENT. 3.4 Each provision of this Clause 3 operates separately in itself and survives independently of the others. 4.1 You hereby agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the BBC in respect of all damages, costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees and litigation expenses, arising out of or as a result of any breach of the Standard Licence Terms or otherwise in connection with your use of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content). 5.1 You may terminate this Agreement and the licence granted herein at any time by destroying or removing all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) from your Site, all hard drives, networks and other storage media. 5.2 The BBC may restrict, suspend or terminate the BBC Feed, this Agreement, the licence granted herein or your access to the BBC Feed at any time without liability. You agree to destroy all copies of the BBC Feed (including the BBC Content) upon receiving notice of termination from the BBC. 5.3 Clauses 3, 4 and 6 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 6.1 Neither party may assign, charge, sublicense or otherwise deal with its rights or obligations in this Agreement in whole or in part to any third party. 6.2 This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements, arrangements and understandings between the parties concerning its subject matter. Each of the parties acknowledges that it has not relied on any statement made by the other in the course of entering into this Agreement. 6.3 Any failure or delay by either party in exercising its rights under any provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of those rights at any time now or in the future. 6.4 This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and take effect in accordance with English law and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any claim or dispute which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement. The BBC's RSS feeds and any BBC content contained in the BBC RSS feeds may only be displayed on websites that do not fall into any one or more of the categories listed below. A site will be deemed to fall within one of the following categories where there is a material and prominent section of the Site that falls within such category. 1. Sites that incite hatred whether based on race, religion, gender, sexuality or otherwise, or promote encourage or facilitate anti-social behaviour 2. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate violence 3. Sites that promote, encourage or facilitate terrorism or other activities that risk UK national security 4. Sites that discriminate against any specific social group or otherwise exploit vulnerable sections of society 5. Sites that promote, facilitate or encourage illegal activity 6. Sites which are misleading, pornographic, defamatory, or that contain illegal, or otherwise actionable content under UK law 7. Sites which infringe individual privacy (based on the parameters laid down in the "Privacy" chapter of the BBC's Any BBC RSS feed or BBC content on your site must incorporate an attribution (credit) to the BBC in one of the following forms: "From BBC News / BBC Sport / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable), or "This content / article is from BBC News / BBC Sport/ the BBC News website / the BBC Sport website / bbc.co.uk" (delete as applicable) If you are displaying a BBC RSS feed in a context where a functional link back to the article on the BBC's website is not possible then you use the following attribution (credit) From bbc.co.uk/news or bbc.co.uk/sport (delete as applicable) If used as part of the BBC BackStage project, then the following wording needs to be added: You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trade mark without signing a BBC trade mark licence agreement. MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to you brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6637407.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Teachers' threat over class sizes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:05 GMT 00:05 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers' threat over class sizes The union says the executive broke a pledge to cut class sizes Scotland's largest teaching union could be asked to vote on proposals for industrial action to cut class sizes. The Edinburgh branch of the EIS hopes to win backing for the move at the union's annual general meeting, to be held in Perth in June. It believes the previous Scottish Executive reneged on a promise to cut class sizes to 20 in key subject areas. The executive denied this and said it remained committed to achieving the target, albeit with more flexibility. A commitment on class sizes formed part of Labour's coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats after the 2003 Holyrood election. The aim was to cut S1 and S2 maths and English class sizes to a maximum of 20 in a drive to improve numeracy and literacy. However, in February this year, it emerged that class sizes of up to 29 would be allowed if the overall average could be kept to 20. The executive claimed the move would give teachers more flexibility but the EIS said this would compromise standards. Now delegates at the union's conference in Perth will be asked to consider industrial action on the issue. E-mail this to a friend Executive drops class size pledge 19 Feb 07 | Scotland Council in school target concerns 20 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central Heads warn of class size increase 19 Jun 06 | Scotland Action over class numbers looms 08 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632479.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Creative skills urged for primary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 13:18 GMT 14:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Creative skills urged for primary BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Practical skills should be taught in primary schools, says Mick Brookes Primary pupils should learn skills such as carpentry and cooking, say head teachers. Mick Brookes, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said 11-year-olds spent too much time preparing for Sats tests. Mr Brookes said pupils should be able to develop practical and creative skills before leaving primary school. And he warned of "an army of the unemployable" if more was not done to engage teenagers in education. In his closing address to delegates at the NAHT's annual conference in Bournemouth, Mr Brookes said: "Our primary children should be freed up from the narrow curriculum forced on them and able to develop fledgling specialised skills." Mr Brookes spoke of how much 11-year-old pupils at his former schools had gained from a parent, who was a professional carpenter, coming into class and teaching them new skills. He said older primary pupils could learn to cook basic healthy menus and be able to this knowledge home. Basic mechanics and bicycle maintenance could also be covered. "These are the sort of skills we're missing out and losing," he said. "The earlier children are introduced to those skills the better. We should be building those skills at a very early age and then following them through into Key Stage 3." 'Army of the unemployable' Mr Brookes told delegates more must be done to tackle disaffection and resentment amongst teenagers who had not been successful at school. "These young people, who have been denied the taste of success in their school careers, vote with their feet at the earliest opportunity. "We cannot allow a whole army of the nation's youth to leave school with nothing to show for those 11 years except disaffections and resentment. "The current number of unskilled jobs in this country is estimated at about three million today. The effects of technology may well mean a huge shrinkage of this employment market. "When this happens, we will not simply have an army of the unemployed, we will have an army of the unemployable - a huge threat to social cohesion." E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/6637407.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Teachers' threat over class sizes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:05 GMT 00:05 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers' threat over class sizes The union says the executive broke a pledge to cut class sizes Scotland's largest teaching union could be asked to vote on proposals for industrial action to cut class sizes. The Edinburgh branch of the EIS hopes to win backing for the move at the union's annual general meeting, to be held in Perth in June. It believes the previous Scottish Executive reneged on a promise to cut class sizes to 20 in key subject areas. The executive denied this and said it remained committed to achieving the target, albeit with more flexibility. A commitment on class sizes formed part of Labour's coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats after the 2003 Holyrood election. The aim was to cut S1 and S2 maths and English class sizes to a maximum of 20 in a drive to improve numeracy and literacy. However, in February this year, it emerged that class sizes of up to 29 would be allowed if the overall average could be kept to 20. The executive claimed the move would give teachers more flexibility but the EIS said this would compromise standards. Now delegates at the union's conference in Perth will be asked to consider industrial action on the issue. E-mail this to a friend Executive drops class size pledge 19 Feb 07 | Scotland Council in school target concerns 20 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central Heads warn of class size increase 19 Jun 06 | Scotland Action over class numbers looms 08 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites City vigil for missing Madeleine Osprey makes up with mate SNP and Greens sign working deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6638591.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair's son joins teaching scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:43 GMT 11:43 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair's son joins teaching scheme Nicky Blair will also receive training in business skills One of the prime minister's sons, Nicky Blair, is to try his hand at teaching after graduating from Oxford this year. He will be joining the Teach First programme which puts "high calibre" graduates into challenging English secondary schools for two years. They are expected to qualify as teachers after the first year, but also get business training. Mr Blair, 21, is about to take final exams in a modern history degree and will then have six weeks' training. Teach First is supported by businesses and not-for-profit organisations. Those taking part are expected to achieve qualified teacher status after a year but also get training in business skills to enable them to move on to other careers - though not all do. It began in London in 2002 and has since been expanded to Greater Manchester and the Midlands. Teach First said in a statement that Nicky Blair would be one of 300 recruits this year. E-mail this to a friend 'Teach first' scheme is expanding 31 Mar 06 | Education High-flying teachers to graduate 07 Jul 05 | Education Top graduates 'improving schools' 09 Feb 05 | Education Row over fast-track teacher call 24 Nov 04 | Scotland Training and Development Agency for Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6624489.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Warning over workforce black hole Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 09:59 GMT 10:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning over workforce black hole BBC News education reporter Millions of adults are economically inactive A demographic time bomb will lead to two million unfilled jobs unless those who choose not to work retrain and join the workforce, an expert claims. Government skills adviser Chris Humphries says birth rate falls in the 1990s will lead to a workforce "black hole", unless urgent action is taken. This can be filled only by targeting hard-to-reach, out-of-work people who do not receive benefits, he says. The government said it was aware of the changing demographics of the workforce. Economists argue that each decade a minimum of an extra 1.3 million people need to join the workforce to ensure economic growth. The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap Over the past decade half of these jobs have been filled by young workers coming through the education system, and the rest by women returning to work, immigrants and there being fewer long-term sick people. But population projections by government actuaries show there will be 600,000 fewer potential young workers aged between 16 and 24 by 2020 than there are now, and 700,000 fewer than in 2010. This is because the birth rate fell in the mid-1990s to below what was needed to ensure population stability. This means there are likely to be two million unfilled jobs in the British economy by 2020, says Mr Humphries, who is also the director general of qualifications group City and Guilds. He says the government-commissioned report into skills by Sir Sandy Leitch, which called for a major increase in the skills of the existing workforce by 2020, neglected to address this issue. "The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap so that the gaps in the workforce are occupied in 2020 by people with the right level of skills." He argues that the only answer is to bring a proportion of the millions of adults who are not currently in the workforce or in receipt of benefits. "It has to be done - or the economy will not move forward. We won't get the tax receipts," he added. The Leitch report had been right to try to call for as many young people who were not in education, employment or training to improve their skills, he said. But this along with workforce training would not be sufficient. "Leitch hasn't talked about that issue at all. "This is a really important issue. Ensuring we have the workforce we need in 2020 is about ensuring that you and I live well in old age and our children have access to the education and services they deserve in a world that's becoming much tougher. "We have got the policies coming into force around young people, those in work and those who are registered unemployed but we do not have the policy initiatives in place for those who are not employed - that will be necessary to produce the economic growth needed from 2020," he added. The only answer was to campaign positively, to offer financial and tax incentives to the non-employed so that they were encouraged and incentivised to retrain and come back to work, Mr Humphries said. A spokeswoman for the Department for Education and Skills said it was wrong to assume that changing age patterns would create a "shortfall", as the workforce the UK needed was not a fixed quantity. "But Leitch does recognise that training the flow of young people entering the labour market cannot be enough to meet our future skills needs; nor do we believe that inward migration can ever be more than part of the answer. "People without jobs will never achieve sustained employment without the opportunity to up-skill; Leitch recognised this in his recommendations for integrating employment and skills." She added that the workforce could be expanded by extending people's working lives and helping the economically inactive into sustainable employment. E-mail this to a friend UK staff 'need time off to train' 17 Nov 06 | Business 21 Nov 06 | Education Skills training 'needs shake-up' 05 Dec 06 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6632479.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Creative skills urged for primary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 13:18 GMT 14:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Creative skills urged for primary BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Practical skills should be taught in primary schools, says Mick Brookes Primary pupils should learn skills such as carpentry and cooking, say head teachers. Mick Brookes, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said 11-year-olds spent too much time preparing for Sats tests. Mr Brookes said pupils should be able to develop practical and creative skills before leaving primary school. And he warned of "an army of the unemployable" if more was not done to engage teenagers in education. In his closing address to delegates at the NAHT's annual conference in Bournemouth, Mr Brookes said: "Our primary children should be freed up from the narrow curriculum forced on them and able to develop fledgling specialised skills." Mr Brookes spoke of how much 11-year-old pupils at his former schools had gained from a parent, who was a professional carpenter, coming into class and teaching them new skills. He said older primary pupils could learn to cook basic healthy menus and be able to this knowledge home. Basic mechanics and bicycle maintenance could also be covered. "These are the sort of skills we're missing out and losing," he said. "The earlier children are introduced to those skills the better. We should be building those skills at a very early age and then following them through into Key Stage 3." 'Army of the unemployable' Mr Brookes told delegates more must be done to tackle disaffection and resentment amongst teenagers who had not been successful at school. "These young people, who have been denied the taste of success in their school careers, vote with their feet at the earliest opportunity. "We cannot allow a whole army of the nation's youth to leave school with nothing to show for those 11 years except disaffections and resentment. "The current number of unskilled jobs in this country is estimated at about three million today. The effects of technology may well mean a huge shrinkage of this employment market. "When this happens, we will not simply have an army of the unemployed, we will have an army of the unemployable - a huge threat to social cohesion." E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6624489.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Warning over workforce black hole Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 09:59 GMT 10:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning over workforce black hole BBC News education reporter Millions of adults are economically inactive A demographic time bomb will lead to two million unfilled jobs unless those who choose not to work retrain and join the workforce, an expert claims. Government skills adviser Chris Humphries says birth rate falls in the 1990s will lead to a workforce "black hole", unless urgent action is taken. This can be filled only by targeting hard-to-reach, out-of-work people who do not receive benefits, he says. The government said it was aware of the changing demographics of the workforce. Economists argue that each decade a minimum of an extra 1.3 million people need to join the workforce to ensure economic growth. The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap Over the past decade half of these jobs have been filled by young workers coming through the education system, and the rest by women returning to work, immigrants and there being fewer long-term sick people. But population projections by government actuaries show there will be 600,000 fewer potential young workers aged between 16 and 24 by 2020 than there are now, and 700,000 fewer than in 2010. This is because the birth rate fell in the mid-1990s to below what was needed to ensure population stability. This means there are likely to be two million unfilled jobs in the British economy by 2020, says Mr Humphries, who is also the director general of qualifications group City and Guilds. He says the government-commissioned report into skills by Sir Sandy Leitch, which called for a major increase in the skills of the existing workforce by 2020, neglected to address this issue. "The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap so that the gaps in the workforce are occupied in 2020 by people with the right level of skills." He argues that the only answer is to bring a proportion of the millions of adults who are not currently in the workforce or in receipt of benefits. "It has to be done - or the economy will not move forward. We won't get the tax receipts," he added. The Leitch report had been right to try to call for as many young people who were not in education, employment or training to improve their skills, he said. But this along with workforce training would not be sufficient. "Leitch hasn't talked about that issue at all. "This is a really important issue. Ensuring we have the workforce we need in 2020 is about ensuring that you and I live well in old age and our children have access to the education and services they deserve in a world that's becoming much tougher. "We have got the policies coming into force around young people, those in work and those who are registered unemployed but we do not have the policy initiatives in place for those who are not employed - that will be necessary to produce the economic growth needed from 2020," he added. The only answer was to campaign positively, to offer financial and tax incentives to the non-employed so that they were encouraged and incentivised to retrain and come back to work, Mr Humphries said. A spokeswoman for the Department for Education and Skills said it was wrong to assume that changing age patterns would create a "shortfall", as the workforce the UK needed was not a fixed quantity. "But Leitch does recognise that training the flow of young people entering the labour market cannot be enough to meet our future skills needs; nor do we believe that inward migration can ever be more than part of the answer. "People without jobs will never achieve sustained employment without the opportunity to up-skill; Leitch recognised this in his recommendations for integrating employment and skills." She added that the workforce could be expanded by extending people's working lives and helping the economically inactive into sustainable employment. E-mail this to a friend UK staff 'need time off to train' 17 Nov 06 | Business 21 Nov 06 | Education Skills training 'needs shake-up' 05 Dec 06 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6637321.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Schools screening for TB begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 05:49 GMT 06:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Schools screening for TB begins Pupils at Gorseinon Junior School are among those screened Screening of 172 pupils in two Swansea schools for TB is underway after a member of staff and her three children were diagnosed with the infection. Pupils at Gorseinon Infants and Junior Schools are being offered a skin test for the disease. The National Public Health Service for Wales (NPHS) said the chances of the infection spreading within the school were very low. The four diagnosed with TB are said to be responding well to treatment. The teacher at Gorseinon Infants School has been off work since the end of March, while her children were diagnosed with TB last week. Mac Walapu, of the NPHS, said the screening for TB was normal procedure in such cases. TB can be spread from person to person He said: "The test involves injecting a small amount of purified sterile protein just under the skin in the forearm. "The test can be read two to three days later. We will be seeing every tested child later this week to read the reaction. "A positive test does not necessarily mean the child has TB. A positive result can be caused by a reaction to a previous BCG vaccination or to exposure to TB at any time in the past. "It can also be caused by exposure to other germs similar to TB which are mostly harmless." The NPHS said there would be no final results available this week and children at the two schools would be monitored until the end of June. Dr Walapu added: "We have had very good support from the education authority and staff in the school. Parents have also been very co-operative and supportive." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region TB tests offered at city schools 02 May 07 | South West Wales Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health Older TB vaccines 'work better' 18 Mar 07 | Health Drug resistant TB 'more severe' 16 Dec 06 | Health Migrants 'carry disease burden' 15 Nov 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Six children in positive TB tests Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull Rugby amputee thanks well-wishers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486813.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Faith fuels home education boom Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 23 March 2007, 17:46 GMT E-mail this to a friend Faith fuels home education boom Jack likes the flexibility in being taught at home Thirteen-year-old Jack August sits on a small sofa in a cozy, carpeted room, reading aloud from a book about knights. All the while his playful golden retriever, Mighty, tries to sneak up on the sofa when Jack isn't looking. Jack's mother, Sue, sits alongside, asking him questions about the story. Earlier in the day, the two performed a science experiment together, using the sofa cushions and a ball fetched from the garage. This is a just another day for Jack, who is one of the two million students in the US who are homeschooled - taught by their parents at home. And he loves it. "I like the flexibility. If an opportunity to play tennis or anything else pops up I can do it and just make up the schoolwork later. "And with the one-on-one instruction, it seems you can move ahead quicker and be at a higher level of learning." And yes, says Jack, he does socialise with other children. "I have friends from church, from sports, and I do know other local homeschool kids." Until the 1970s, homeschooling was more of a necessity than a choice for American parents. Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values Homeschooling mother Sue August It took place mostly in rural areas, where schools could be long distances away and children were needed to help out with the work at home. But after the publication of several controversial books that criticised institutional schooling, the modern homeschool movement in the US began, with thousands of suburban families joining in. Still, it was not until recently that the numbers of homeschoolers really exploded - nearly doubling in the last six years. The National Home Education Research Institute (a pro-homeschool advocacy group) estimates that that around 1.5 million children were educated at home in 2000, but in 2006, the number was closer to 2.5 million. This increase is due, in large part, to the rise of Christian homeschooling - parents' choosing to teach children at home from a Biblical point of view. Now there is a vast and highly organised network of Christian homeschooling advocacy groups, legal advisers and curriculum material. Sue August says she and her husband decided to homeschool Jack even before he was born. Nothing beats schooling, some say "Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values to our son." Her husband Mark says parents can impart something that teachers can not. "Character is just as important as academics. And so what we're looking for are character training issues and we would rather do that ourselves." The Augusts use a Christian-based curriculum for teaching their son. Legally, they can teach him whatever they want. I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling Homeschool regulations vary state by state in the US, but New Jersey, where the Augusts live, has some of the most lenient. There are no requirements for attendance, training, testing, or even the use of books. While that may seem highly unorthodox to many people, Mark August says homeschooling is just a different way of looking at the world. "I understand why people look at the lack of regulation and are taken aback. But who is ultimately responsible for raising the child - is it the parent or the state?" Mark asked. "From a Biblical standpoint, it's the parents' responsibility. Parents are going to act in the best interest of their children a majority of the time." But Wendy Puriefoy, president of the advocacy group Public Education Network, in Washington DC, questions the ability of parents to provide an adequate environment for maturing as well as learning. "I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling," she said. "I worry about the lack of socialisation for youngsters outside of their families. "I worry about the access to other kinds of non-academic resources that youngsters have in public schools that you might not have in a homeschooling situation." Worlds away from Jack's comfortable sofa, a group of teenagers in a New York City public school history class are gearing up for a debate over the ideal form of government. The classroom is lively and noisy as students hunch over their institutional-style metal desks to prepare their statements and re-check their facts. When the debate finally begins the different voices, accents, opinions and academic aptitudes are apparent. But all the students are participating in their own way. Homeschool advocates might argue that this way of teaching will slow down the brighter children or prevent the slower learners from catching up. But the students in this classroom say they would not have it any other way. "When you're at school, you're pushed. Competition brings out the best in you," said 11th-grade student Frank, adding philosophically: "The most enlightened people are those who are enlightened by others." Another teenager from the class, Julia, points out what she sees as another benefit of going to school. "I wouldn't want to be around my Mom all day! "No offence, I love her, you know - but this is a nice little break away from her!" E-mail this to a friend Home schooling numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education National Home Education Research Institute Home Education Advisory Service Action for Home Education A to Z Home's Cool The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Friday, 11 May 2007, 20:00 GMT 21:00 UK Exam papers tagged to beat cheats An exam board introduces new hi-tech methods to try to combat cheating in its GCSEs and A-levels. Exam board tags exam papers 'No re-sits' after exam theft Summer school programme grows A major expansion in summer schools for gifted and talented children is announced. City teachers could get more cash The education secretary says teachers at inner city schools should be offered "golden hellos". School corridor used for lessons Inquiry call over college switch Toddlers to get help with talking Action after 'taped mouths' claim Going to school 'not compulsory' Blair's son joins teaching scheme LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Technology could stop exam cheating Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover Some key players pass judgement on the Blair classroom What have the Blair years brought education? Teachers' threat over class sizes Learning to teach toughness Arts students 'plan careers less' Schools screening for TB begins 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Warning of workforce black hole Twinning plan to stop race divide Creative skills urged for primary Heads warn of exam 'meltdown' Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Faith fuels home education boom Toddlers to get help with talking Going to school 'not compulsory' Arts students 'plan careers less' Sats, Cats and Pips Schools repeatedly test pupils even when they do not have to How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES Hands-on projects discover young people's news agenda ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://www.bbc.co.uk/syndication/	BBC Headlines for your site Put the latest headlines on your website, free of charge. Whether you are an experienced webmaster, or running a website for friends and family, adding a BBC News, BBC Sport, or CBBC Headline Box is simple with our four-step process, which you can complete online. Are you eligible to sign-up? The BBC Headline Boxes are available to all public access (no intranets), UK-based sites, subject to certain criteria. Click to read the criteria. If you then wish to apply, click the 'Sign up here' button. BBC News makes most of its news sections avalable in two XML formats - RSS and BBC News XML. If you would like to discuss either of these options with a Business Development manager, please complete the form below. Please select from the options below Please enter any additional information: Please enter your e-mail address: I would like to report a problem I would like to discuss RSS/XML Privacy & Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Boy nets police dog bite payout Jailed chef back home from India School corridor used for lessons MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6486813.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Faith fuels home education boom Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 23 March 2007, 17:46 GMT E-mail this to a friend Faith fuels home education boom Jack likes the flexibility in being taught at home Thirteen-year-old Jack August sits on a small sofa in a cozy, carpeted room, reading aloud from a book about knights. All the while his playful golden retriever, Mighty, tries to sneak up on the sofa when Jack isn't looking. Jack's mother, Sue, sits alongside, asking him questions about the story. Earlier in the day, the two performed a science experiment together, using the sofa cushions and a ball fetched from the garage. This is a just another day for Jack, who is one of the two million students in the US who are homeschooled - taught by their parents at home. And he loves it. "I like the flexibility. If an opportunity to play tennis or anything else pops up I can do it and just make up the schoolwork later. "And with the one-on-one instruction, it seems you can move ahead quicker and be at a higher level of learning." And yes, says Jack, he does socialise with other children. "I have friends from church, from sports, and I do know other local homeschool kids." Until the 1970s, homeschooling was more of a necessity than a choice for American parents. Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values Homeschooling mother Sue August It took place mostly in rural areas, where schools could be long distances away and children were needed to help out with the work at home. But after the publication of several controversial books that criticised institutional schooling, the modern homeschool movement in the US began, with thousands of suburban families joining in. Still, it was not until recently that the numbers of homeschoolers really exploded - nearly doubling in the last six years. The National Home Education Research Institute (a pro-homeschool advocacy group) estimates that that around 1.5 million children were educated at home in 2000, but in 2006, the number was closer to 2.5 million. This increase is due, in large part, to the rise of Christian homeschooling - parents' choosing to teach children at home from a Biblical point of view. Now there is a vast and highly organised network of Christian homeschooling advocacy groups, legal advisers and curriculum material. Sue August says she and her husband decided to homeschool Jack even before he was born. Nothing beats schooling, some say "Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values to our son." Her husband Mark says parents can impart something that teachers can not. "Character is just as important as academics. And so what we're looking for are character training issues and we would rather do that ourselves." The Augusts use a Christian-based curriculum for teaching their son. Legally, they can teach him whatever they want. I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling Homeschool regulations vary state by state in the US, but New Jersey, where the Augusts live, has some of the most lenient. There are no requirements for attendance, training, testing, or even the use of books. While that may seem highly unorthodox to many people, Mark August says homeschooling is just a different way of looking at the world. "I understand why people look at the lack of regulation and are taken aback. But who is ultimately responsible for raising the child - is it the parent or the state?" Mark asked. "From a Biblical standpoint, it's the parents' responsibility. Parents are going to act in the best interest of their children a majority of the time." But Wendy Puriefoy, president of the advocacy group Public Education Network, in Washington DC, questions the ability of parents to provide an adequate environment for maturing as well as learning. "I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling," she said. "I worry about the lack of socialisation for youngsters outside of their families. "I worry about the access to other kinds of non-academic resources that youngsters have in public schools that you might not have in a homeschooling situation." Worlds away from Jack's comfortable sofa, a group of teenagers in a New York City public school history class are gearing up for a debate over the ideal form of government. The classroom is lively and noisy as students hunch over their institutional-style metal desks to prepare their statements and re-check their facts. When the debate finally begins the different voices, accents, opinions and academic aptitudes are apparent. But all the students are participating in their own way. Homeschool advocates might argue that this way of teaching will slow down the brighter children or prevent the slower learners from catching up. But the students in this classroom say they would not have it any other way. "When you're at school, you're pushed. Competition brings out the best in you," said 11th-grade student Frank, adding philosophically: "The most enlightened people are those who are enlightened by others." Another teenager from the class, Julia, points out what she sees as another benefit of going to school. "I wouldn't want to be around my Mom all day! "No offence, I love her, you know - but this is a nice little break away from her!" E-mail this to a friend Home schooling numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education National Home Education Research Institute Home Education Advisory Service Action for Home Education A to Z Home's Cool The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://search.yahoo.com/mrss	Media RSS Module - RSS 2.0 Module "Media RSS" Specification Version 1.1.1 An RSS module that supplements the 02/21/2005 - Major consolidation of all requested changes: [1.0.0] Added additional type of element to distinguish content of an adult nature. Modified to have a attribute for better module consistency. to allow specifying categorization scheme. for a human readable label. element for media binary hashing. to distinguish formatting of text. Improved descriptions of various elements and attributes. 08/22/2005 - Improved global syndication capabilities: [1.1.0] attributes to media:text and media:content. to give more flexibility to represent things other than people or companies. to explicitly determine what type of media is expressed. Added a "Best Practices" section to encourage use of the Feed History module, and Dublin Core's expiration capability. Add time code information to 10/22/2005 - Minor improvements: [1.1.1] Added capability for elements to appear at the to allow explicit global relationships to be expressed. The namespace for Media RSS is defined to be: "Media RSS" is a new RSS module that supplements the enclosure capabilities of RSS 2.0. RSS enclosures are already being used to syndicate audio files and images. Media RSS extends enclosures to handle other media types, such as short films or TV, as well as provide additional metadata with the media. Media RSS enables content publishers and bloggers to syndicate multimedia content such as TV and video clips, movies, images, and audio. is a sub-element of . It allows grouping of elements that are effectively the same content, yet different representations. For instance: the same song recorded in both the WAV and MP3 format. It's an optional element that must only be used for this purpose. is a sub-element of either . Media objects that are not the same content should not be included in the same element. The sequence of these items implies the order of presentation. While many of the attributes appear to be audio/video specific, this element can be used to publish any type of media. It contains 14 attributes, most of which are optional. should specify the direct url to the media object. If not included, a element must be specified. is the number of bytes of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the standard MIME type of the object. It is an optional attribute. is the type of object (image | audio | video | document | executable). While this attribute can at times seem redundant if is supplied, it is included because it simplifies decision making on the reader side, as well as flushes out any ambiguities between MIME type and object type. It is an optional attribute. determines if this is the default object that should be used for the . There should only be one default object per . It is an optional attribute. determines if the object is a sample or the full version of the object, or even if it is a continuous stream (sample | full | nonstop). Default value is 'full'. It is an optional attribute. is the kilobits per second rate of media. It is an optional attribute. is the number of frames per second for the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of samples per second taken to create the media object. It is expressed in thousands of samples per second (kHz). It is an optional attribute. is number of audio channels in the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the number of seconds the media object plays. It is an optional attribute. is the height of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the media object. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. These optional attributes, along with the optional elements below, contain the primary metadata entries needed to index and organize media content. Additional supported attributes for describing images, audio, and video may be added in future revisions of this document. have no limitations on the number of times they can appear, the general nature of RSS should be preserved: an represents a "story". Simply stated, this is similar to the blog style of syndication. However, if one is using this module to strictly publish media, there should be one element for each media object/group. This is to allow for proper attribution for the origination of the media content through the element. It also allows the full benefit of the other RSS elements to be realized. The following elements are optional and may appear as sub-elements of When an element appears at a shallow level, such as , it means that the element should be applied to every media object within its scope. Duplicated elements appearing at deeper levels of the document tree have higher priority over other levels. For example, level elements are favored over level elements. The priority level is listed from strongest to weakest: [NOTE: This is deprecated, and has been replaced with the more flexible This allows the permissible audience to be declared. If this element is not included, it assumes that no restrictions are necessary. It has one optional attribute. r (cz 1 lz 1 nz 1 oz 1 vz 1) is the URI that identifies the rating scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is urn:simple (adult | nonadult). The title of the particular media object. It has 1 optional attribute. The Judy's - The Moo Song specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Short description describing the media object typically a sentence in length. It has 1 optional attribute. This was some really bizarre band I listened to as a young lad. specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. Highly relevant keywords describing the media object with typically a maximum of ten words. The keywords and phrases should be comma delimited. kitty, cat, big dog, yarn, fluffy Allows particular images to be used as representative images for the media object. If multiple thumbnails are included, and time coding is not at play, it is assumed that the images are in order of importance. It has 1 required attribute and 3 optional attributes. specifies the url of the thumbnail. It is a required attribute. specifies the height of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the width of the thumbnail. It is an optional attribute. specifies the time offset in relation to the media object. Typically this is used when creating multiple keyframes within a single video. The format for this attribute should be in the DSM-CC's Normal Play Time (NTP) as used in RTSP [ RFC 2326 3.6 Normal Play Time ]. It is an optional attribute. NTP has a second or subsecond resolution. It is specified as H:M:S.h (npt-hhmmss) or S.h (npt-sec), where H=hours, M=minutes, S=second and h=fractions of a second. A possible alternative to NTP would be SMPTE. It is believed that NTP is simpler and easier to use. Allows a taxonomy to be set that gives an indication of the type of media content, and its particular contents. It has 2 optional attributes. is the URI that identifies the categorization scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'http://search.yahoo.com/mrss/category_schema'. is the human readable label that can be displayed in end user applications. It is an optional attribute. This is the hash of the binary media file. It can appear multiple times as long as each instance is a different . It has 1 optional attribute. indicates the algorithm used to create the hash. Possible values are 'md5' and 'sha-1'. Default value is 'md5'. It is an optional attribute. Allows the media object to be accessed through a web browser media player console. This element is required only if a direct media attribute is not specified in the element. It has 1 required attribute, and 2 optional attributes. is the url of the player console that plays the media. It is a required attribute. is the height of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. is the width of the browser window that the should be opened in. It is an optional attribute. Notable entity and the contribution to the creation of the media object. Current entities can include people, companies, locations, etc. Specific entities can have multiple roles, and several entities can have the same role. These should appear as distinct elements. It has 2 optional attributes. role specifies the role the entity played. Must be lowercase. It is an optional attribute. is the URI that identifies the role scheme. It is an optional attribute. If this attribute is not included, the default scheme is 'urn:ebu'. See: European Broadcasting Union Role Codes. actor anchor person author choreographer composer conductor director editor graphic designer grip illustrator lyricist music arranger music group musician orchestra performer photographer producer reporter vocalist European Broadcasting Union Role Codes Copyright information for media object. It has 1 optional attribute. is the url for a terms of use page or additional copyright information. If the media is operating under a Creative Commons license, the Creative Commons module should be used instead. It is an optional attribute. Allows the inclusion of a text transcript, closed captioning, or lyrics of the media content. Many of these elements are permitted to provide a time series of text. In such cases, it is encouraged, but not required, that the elements be grouped by language and appear in time sequence order based on the time. Elements can have overlapping times. It has 4 optional attributes. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light specifies the type of text embedded. Possible values are either 'plain' or 'html'. Default value is 'plain'. All html must be entity-encoded. It is an optional attribute. is the primary language encapsulated in the media object. Language codes possible are detailed in RFC 3066. This attribute is used similar to the xml:lang attribute detailed in the XML 1.0 Specification (Third Edition). It is an optional attribute. specifies the start time offset that the text starts being relevant to the media object. An example of this would be for closed captioning. It uses the NTP time code format (see: the time attribute used in ). It is an optional attribute. specifies the end time that the text is relevant. If this attribute is not provided, and a time is used, it is expected that the end time is either the end of the clip or the start of the next Allows restrictions to be placed on the aggregator rendering the media in the feed. Currently, restrictions are based on distributor (uri) and country codes. This element is purely informational and no obligation can be assumed or implied. Only one element of the same can be applied to a media object - all others will be ignored. Entities in this element should be space separated. To allow the producer to explicitly declare his/her intentions, two literals are reserved: 'all', 'none'. These literals can only be used once. This element has 1 required attribute, and 1 optional attribute (with strict requirements for its exclusion). indicates the type of relationship that the restriction represents (allow | deny). In the example above, the media object should only be syndicated in Australia and the United States. It is a required attribute. If the "allow" element is empty and the type is relationship is "allow", it is assumed that the empty list means "allow nobody" and the media should not be syndicated. A more explicit method would be: specifies the type of restriction (country | uri) that the media can be syndicated. It is an optional attribute; however can only be excluded when using one of the literal values "all" or "none". "country" allows restrictions to be placed based on country code. [ "uri" allows restrictions based on URI. Examples: urn:apple, http://images.google.com, urn:yahoo, etc. The following are encouraged "best practices" when using Media RSS: If your feed is not an "incremental" in the traditional RSS sense, but rather an entire snapshot of all media available, please take note of the element. This element when set to "false" correctly informs the RSS reader that the current feed replaces the previously fetched feed. If you prefer to syndicate media more along the lines of traditional RSS, this specification also allows you to daisy chain multiple feeds together to compose a history of media that is available on your site. Expirations Using Dublin Core To the best of your ability, media that is scheduled to expire after a given time should be duly noted through Dublin Core's A recently created movie, using the RSS 2.0 element and without the use of the Media RSS module. A movie review with a trailer, using a Creative Commons license. My Movie Review Site Movie Title: Is this a good movie? A music video with a link to a player window, and additional metadata about the video, including expiration date. Discussions of great videos The latest video from an artist Oh, say, can you see, by the dawn's early light Several different songs that relate to the same topic. Discussion on different songs These songs make me think about blah Same song with multiple files at different bitrates and encodings. (Bittorrent example as well) Songs galore at different bitrates Cool song by an artist Thank you to everyone who has contributed to this specification, and to all those that sent suggestions and corrections. The Yahoo! Group " " has been instrumental in helping transform the initial Media RSS proposal into a working specification. While there have been many helpful individuals from this community, special thanks go to Danny Ayers, Marc Canter, Lucas Gonze, Vadim Zaliva, Greg Smith, Robert Sayre, Suzan Foster, Erwin van Hunen, Greg Gershman, Jennifer Kolar, Bill Kearney, and Andreas Haugstrup Pedersen. On the Yahoo! team: David Hall, John Thrall, Eckart Walther, Jeremy Zawodny, Andy Volk, and Bradley Horowitz. On the Google team: David Marwood and Peter Chane. Copyright &copy; 2007 Yahoo! Inc. All rights reserved.
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to you brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/south_west/6637321.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Schools screening for TB begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 05:49 GMT 06:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Schools screening for TB begins Pupils at Gorseinon Junior School are among those screened Screening of 172 pupils in two Swansea schools for TB is underway after a member of staff and her three children were diagnosed with the infection. Pupils at Gorseinon Infants and Junior Schools are being offered a skin test for the disease. The National Public Health Service for Wales (NPHS) said the chances of the infection spreading within the school were very low. The four diagnosed with TB are said to be responding well to treatment. The teacher at Gorseinon Infants School has been off work since the end of March, while her children were diagnosed with TB last week. Mac Walapu, of the NPHS, said the screening for TB was normal procedure in such cases. TB can be spread from person to person He said: "The test involves injecting a small amount of purified sterile protein just under the skin in the forearm. "The test can be read two to three days later. We will be seeing every tested child later this week to read the reaction. "A positive test does not necessarily mean the child has TB. A positive result can be caused by a reaction to a previous BCG vaccination or to exposure to TB at any time in the past. "It can also be caused by exposure to other germs similar to TB which are mostly harmless." The NPHS said there would be no final results available this week and children at the two schools would be monitored until the end of June. Dr Walapu added: "We have had very good support from the education authority and staff in the school. Parents have also been very co-operative and supportive." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region TB tests offered at city schools 02 May 07 | South West Wales Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health Older TB vaccines 'work better' 18 Mar 07 | Health Drug resistant TB 'more severe' 16 Dec 06 | Health Migrants 'carry disease burden' 15 Nov 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Six children in positive TB tests Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull Rugby amputee thanks well-wishers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Phones allowed for Ten Tors trek Inquiry call over college switch Royal couple's SW visit finished MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows City teachers could get more cash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Google searches web's dark side Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Tips to help you stay safe online Most popular now, in detail Confused penguin strays 5,000km Micro artist sells works for £11m Google searches web's dark side Madeleine parents 'won't give up' Brown makes pitch to lead Britain Most popular now, in detail Tears as hundreds attend vigil for missing Madeleine Historic visit to the Boyne points way to the future Outgoing British leader Blair bids farewell to France's Chirac Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hospital report reveals debt fear Homes revealed for hospital site Boy nets police dog bite payout MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hospital report reveals debt fear Homes revealed for hospital site Boy nets police dog bite payout MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Children found sheltering in wood Drug stolen in health centre raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Children found sheltering in wood Drug stolen in health centre raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6638591.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair's son joins teaching scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:43 GMT 11:43 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair's son joins teaching scheme Nicky Blair will also receive training in business skills One of the prime minister's sons, Nicky Blair, is to try his hand at teaching after graduating from Oxford this year. He will be joining the Teach First programme which puts "high calibre" graduates into challenging English secondary schools for two years. They are expected to qualify as teachers after the first year, but also get business training. Mr Blair, 21, is about to take final exams in a modern history degree and will then have six weeks' training. Teach First is supported by businesses and not-for-profit organisations. Those taking part are expected to achieve qualified teacher status after a year but also get training in business skills to enable them to move on to other careers - though not all do. It began in London in 2002 and has since been expanded to Greater Manchester and the Midlands. Teach First said in a statement that Nicky Blair would be one of 300 recruits this year. E-mail this to a friend 'Teach first' scheme is expanding 31 Mar 06 | Education High-flying teachers to graduate 07 Jul 05 | Education Top graduates 'improving schools' 09 Feb 05 | Education Row over fast-track teacher call 24 Nov 04 | Scotland Training and Development Agency for Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6638591.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair's son joins teaching scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 10:43 GMT 11:43 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair's son joins teaching scheme Nicky Blair will also receive training in business skills One of the prime minister's sons, Nicky Blair, is to try his hand at teaching after graduating from Oxford this year. He will be joining the Teach First programme which puts "high calibre" graduates into challenging English secondary schools for two years. They are expected to qualify as teachers after the first year, but also get business training. Mr Blair, 21, is about to take final exams in a modern history degree and will then have six weeks' training. Teach First is supported by businesses and not-for-profit organisations. Those taking part are expected to achieve qualified teacher status after a year but also get training in business skills to enable them to move on to other careers - though not all do. It began in London in 2002 and has since been expanded to Greater Manchester and the Midlands. Teach First said in a statement that Nicky Blair would be one of 300 recruits this year. E-mail this to a friend 'Teach first' scheme is expanding 31 Mar 06 | Education High-flying teachers to graduate 07 Jul 05 | Education Top graduates 'improving schools' 09 Feb 05 | Education Row over fast-track teacher call 24 Nov 04 | Scotland Training and Development Agency for Schools The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to you brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to you brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6637407.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Teachers' threat over class sizes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:05 GMT 00:05 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers' threat over class sizes The union says the executive broke a pledge to cut class sizes Scotland's largest teaching union could be asked to vote on proposals for industrial action to cut class sizes. The Edinburgh branch of the EIS hopes to win backing for the move at the union's annual general meeting, to be held in Perth in June. It believes the previous Scottish Executive reneged on a promise to cut class sizes to 20 in key subject areas. The executive denied this and said it remained committed to achieving the target, albeit with more flexibility. A commitment on class sizes formed part of Labour's coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats after the 2003 Holyrood election. The aim was to cut S1 and S2 maths and English class sizes to a maximum of 20 in a drive to improve numeracy and literacy. However, in February this year, it emerged that class sizes of up to 29 would be allowed if the overall average could be kept to 20. The executive claimed the move would give teachers more flexibility but the EIS said this would compromise standards. Now delegates at the union's conference in Perth will be asked to consider industrial action on the issue. E-mail this to a friend Executive drops class size pledge 19 Feb 07 | Scotland Council in school target concerns 20 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central Heads warn of class size increase 19 Jun 06 | Scotland Action over class numbers looms 08 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Clubs mark Madeleine's birthday Two men held after stabbing death Osprey makes up with mate MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6637407.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Teachers' threat over class sizes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:05 GMT 00:05 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers' threat over class sizes The union says the executive broke a pledge to cut class sizes Scotland's largest teaching union could be asked to vote on proposals for industrial action to cut class sizes. The Edinburgh branch of the EIS hopes to win backing for the move at the union's annual general meeting, to be held in Perth in June. It believes the previous Scottish Executive reneged on a promise to cut class sizes to 20 in key subject areas. The executive denied this and said it remained committed to achieving the target, albeit with more flexibility. A commitment on class sizes formed part of Labour's coalition deal with the Liberal Democrats after the 2003 Holyrood election. The aim was to cut S1 and S2 maths and English class sizes to a maximum of 20 in a drive to improve numeracy and literacy. However, in February this year, it emerged that class sizes of up to 29 would be allowed if the overall average could be kept to 20. The executive claimed the move would give teachers more flexibility but the EIS said this would compromise standards. Now delegates at the union's conference in Perth will be asked to consider industrial action on the issue. E-mail this to a friend Executive drops class size pledge 19 Feb 07 | Scotland Council in school target concerns 20 Sep 06 | Tayside and Central Heads warn of class size increase 19 Jun 06 | Scotland Action over class numbers looms 08 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Clubs mark Madeleine's birthday Two men held after stabbing death Osprey makes up with mate MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632479.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Creative skills urged for primary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 13:18 GMT 14:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Creative skills urged for primary BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Practical skills should be taught in primary schools, says Mick Brookes Primary pupils should learn skills such as carpentry and cooking, say head teachers. Mick Brookes, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said 11-year-olds spent too much time preparing for Sats tests. Mr Brookes said pupils should be able to develop practical and creative skills before leaving primary school. And he warned of "an army of the unemployable" if more was not done to engage teenagers in education. In his closing address to delegates at the NAHT's annual conference in Bournemouth, Mr Brookes said: "Our primary children should be freed up from the narrow curriculum forced on them and able to develop fledgling specialised skills." Mr Brookes spoke of how much 11-year-old pupils at his former schools had gained from a parent, who was a professional carpenter, coming into class and teaching them new skills. He said older primary pupils could learn to cook basic healthy menus and be able to this knowledge home. Basic mechanics and bicycle maintenance could also be covered. "These are the sort of skills we're missing out and losing," he said. "The earlier children are introduced to those skills the better. We should be building those skills at a very early age and then following them through into Key Stage 3." 'Army of the unemployable' Mr Brookes told delegates more must be done to tackle disaffection and resentment amongst teenagers who had not been successful at school. "These young people, who have been denied the taste of success in their school careers, vote with their feet at the earliest opportunity. "We cannot allow a whole army of the nation's youth to leave school with nothing to show for those 11 years except disaffections and resentment. "The current number of unskilled jobs in this country is estimated at about three million today. The effects of technology may well mean a huge shrinkage of this employment market. "When this happens, we will not simply have an army of the unemployed, we will have an army of the unemployable - a huge threat to social cohesion." E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632479.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Creative skills urged for primary Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 13:18 GMT 14:18 UK E-mail this to a friend Creative skills urged for primary BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Practical skills should be taught in primary schools, says Mick Brookes Primary pupils should learn skills such as carpentry and cooking, say head teachers. Mick Brookes, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said 11-year-olds spent too much time preparing for Sats tests. Mr Brookes said pupils should be able to develop practical and creative skills before leaving primary school. And he warned of "an army of the unemployable" if more was not done to engage teenagers in education. In his closing address to delegates at the NAHT's annual conference in Bournemouth, Mr Brookes said: "Our primary children should be freed up from the narrow curriculum forced on them and able to develop fledgling specialised skills." Mr Brookes spoke of how much 11-year-old pupils at his former schools had gained from a parent, who was a professional carpenter, coming into class and teaching them new skills. He said older primary pupils could learn to cook basic healthy menus and be able to this knowledge home. Basic mechanics and bicycle maintenance could also be covered. "These are the sort of skills we're missing out and losing," he said. "The earlier children are introduced to those skills the better. We should be building those skills at a very early age and then following them through into Key Stage 3." 'Army of the unemployable' Mr Brookes told delegates more must be done to tackle disaffection and resentment amongst teenagers who had not been successful at school. "These young people, who have been denied the taste of success in their school careers, vote with their feet at the earliest opportunity. "We cannot allow a whole army of the nation's youth to leave school with nothing to show for those 11 years except disaffections and resentment. "The current number of unskilled jobs in this country is estimated at about three million today. The effects of technology may well mean a huge shrinkage of this employment market. "When this happens, we will not simply have an army of the unemployed, we will have an army of the unemployable - a huge threat to social cohesion." E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6632287.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Twinning plan to stop race divide Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 7 May 2007, 12:19 GMT 13:19 UK E-mail this to a friend Twinning plan to stop race divide BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are being told to build links across racial divides Schools with a predominantly white pupil intake are being told to twin with ethnically-diverse schools - to foster better community relations. The government is putting a legal requirement on schools in England to promote "community cohesion". The duty comes into force in September and will be subject to inspections by education watchdog, Ofsted. Head teachers' leader, Mick Brookes, said that he "winced" at this latest initiative facing schools. Schools Minister Jim Knight, addressing the annual conference of the National Association of Head Teachers in Bournemouth, said the draft guidance on community cohesion would be launched this week. The guidance stresses that schools have a duty to stamp out racial discrimination and must promote good relations between "people of different groups". 'Never met a Hindu' Schools which do not reflect the wider diversity of society must make links with other schools and organisations in order to give pupils the chance to mix with those from different backgrounds. Only 2% of secondary schools and 5% of primary schools in England have no minority ethnic pupils In primary schools, 21.9% of pupils are from ethnic minorities; in secondary 17.7% Secondary faith schools have a higher proportion of pupils from minority ethnic backgrounds than schools without a religious character Mr Knight said links - be they actual or virtual - between schools of differing ethnic or religious make-up was one way of breaking down barriers. "As an example, I'm quite keen on faith-based schools twinning with those of other faiths - to talk to other schools about their faith - so we can extend that understanding." Mr Knight said a secondary school in his constituency, Dorset South, had recently received an outstanding grade from Ofsted inspectors for religious education. "But pupils had never met anyone of Muslim faith or a Hindu." Describing how schools would be expected to promote social cohesion, Mr Knight identified three paths: "First of all, as part of teaching in the classroom, as part of delivering things in the curriculum, like citizenship, like religious education. "Secondly, in terms of the sort of ethos there is in the school to ensure that, obviously there is no racism, but more broadly that there is a tolerant attitude of mutual respect towards other people within the school and beyond the school. "And then thirdly the external relations of the school in the wider community and things like twinning between schools of different faiths, those sort of partnerships are things that we're very keen to encourage." Responding to the new "social cohesion" requirement, the general secretary of the NAHT, Mick Brookes, said: "I winced. Does it sound like another initiative?" Mr Brookes said most schools were already promoting good community relations and the fact that Ofsted inspectors would now be judging them on another area was daunting "It seems like another stick to come and beat schools with. If we're going to do that, what are we going to throw out?" John Dunford, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, said the requirement placed "unnecessary additional statutory responsibility" on schools. Dr Dunford said schools were often the only institutions in a community working towards social cohesion. "It's placing yet another demand on schools," he said. The Commission for Racial Equality says that segregation is "seeping into the fabric of communities across Britain". "It's hard to say whether the lack of integration in our schools is further increasing segregation in our communities, or whether segregation in the communities is determining educational segregation. Either way, this is a huge problem that must be addressed," says a CRE spokesperson. E-mail this to a friend Plan to help black boys achieve 09 Apr 07 | Education Rise in pupils without English 26 Apr 07 | Education White boys 'trailing at school' 15 Nov 06 | UK National Association of Head Teachers Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6624489.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Warning over workforce black hole Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 09:59 GMT 10:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning over workforce black hole BBC News education reporter Millions of adults are economically inactive A demographic time bomb will lead to two million unfilled jobs unless those who choose not to work retrain and join the workforce, an expert claims. Government skills adviser Chris Humphries says birth rate falls in the 1990s will lead to a workforce "black hole", unless urgent action is taken. This can be filled only by targeting hard-to-reach, out-of-work people who do not receive benefits, he says. The government said it was aware of the changing demographics of the workforce. Economists argue that each decade a minimum of an extra 1.3 million people need to join the workforce to ensure economic growth. The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap Over the past decade half of these jobs have been filled by young workers coming through the education system, and the rest by women returning to work, immigrants and there being fewer long-term sick people. But population projections by government actuaries show there will be 600,000 fewer potential young workers aged between 16 and 24 by 2020 than there are now, and 700,000 fewer than in 2010. This is because the birth rate fell in the mid-1990s to below what was needed to ensure population stability. This means there are likely to be two million unfilled jobs in the British economy by 2020, says Mr Humphries, who is also the director general of qualifications group City and Guilds. He says the government-commissioned report into skills by Sir Sandy Leitch, which called for a major increase in the skills of the existing workforce by 2020, neglected to address this issue. "The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap so that the gaps in the workforce are occupied in 2020 by people with the right level of skills." He argues that the only answer is to bring a proportion of the millions of adults who are not currently in the workforce or in receipt of benefits. "It has to be done - or the economy will not move forward. We won't get the tax receipts," he added. The Leitch report had been right to try to call for as many young people who were not in education, employment or training to improve their skills, he said. But this along with workforce training would not be sufficient. "Leitch hasn't talked about that issue at all. "This is a really important issue. Ensuring we have the workforce we need in 2020 is about ensuring that you and I live well in old age and our children have access to the education and services they deserve in a world that's becoming much tougher. "We have got the policies coming into force around young people, those in work and those who are registered unemployed but we do not have the policy initiatives in place for those who are not employed - that will be necessary to produce the economic growth needed from 2020," he added. The only answer was to campaign positively, to offer financial and tax incentives to the non-employed so that they were encouraged and incentivised to retrain and come back to work, Mr Humphries said. A spokeswoman for the Department for Education and Skills said it was wrong to assume that changing age patterns would create a "shortfall", as the workforce the UK needed was not a fixed quantity. "But Leitch does recognise that training the flow of young people entering the labour market cannot be enough to meet our future skills needs; nor do we believe that inward migration can ever be more than part of the answer. "People without jobs will never achieve sustained employment without the opportunity to up-skill; Leitch recognised this in his recommendations for integrating employment and skills." She added that the workforce could be expanded by extending people's working lives and helping the economically inactive into sustainable employment. E-mail this to a friend UK staff 'need time off to train' 17 Nov 06 | Business 21 Nov 06 | Education Skills training 'needs shake-up' 05 Dec 06 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6624489.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Warning over workforce black hole Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 09:59 GMT 10:59 UK E-mail this to a friend Warning over workforce black hole BBC News education reporter Millions of adults are economically inactive A demographic time bomb will lead to two million unfilled jobs unless those who choose not to work retrain and join the workforce, an expert claims. Government skills adviser Chris Humphries says birth rate falls in the 1990s will lead to a workforce "black hole", unless urgent action is taken. This can be filled only by targeting hard-to-reach, out-of-work people who do not receive benefits, he says. The government said it was aware of the changing demographics of the workforce. Economists argue that each decade a minimum of an extra 1.3 million people need to join the workforce to ensure economic growth. The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap Over the past decade half of these jobs have been filled by young workers coming through the education system, and the rest by women returning to work, immigrants and there being fewer long-term sick people. But population projections by government actuaries show there will be 600,000 fewer potential young workers aged between 16 and 24 by 2020 than there are now, and 700,000 fewer than in 2010. This is because the birth rate fell in the mid-1990s to below what was needed to ensure population stability. This means there are likely to be two million unfilled jobs in the British economy by 2020, says Mr Humphries, who is also the director general of qualifications group City and Guilds. He says the government-commissioned report into skills by Sir Sandy Leitch, which called for a major increase in the skills of the existing workforce by 2020, neglected to address this issue. "The big question that is unanswered is what we are going to do to fill that demographic time bomb gap so that the gaps in the workforce are occupied in 2020 by people with the right level of skills." He argues that the only answer is to bring a proportion of the millions of adults who are not currently in the workforce or in receipt of benefits. "It has to be done - or the economy will not move forward. We won't get the tax receipts," he added. The Leitch report had been right to try to call for as many young people who were not in education, employment or training to improve their skills, he said. But this along with workforce training would not be sufficient. "Leitch hasn't talked about that issue at all. "This is a really important issue. Ensuring we have the workforce we need in 2020 is about ensuring that you and I live well in old age and our children have access to the education and services they deserve in a world that's becoming much tougher. "We have got the policies coming into force around young people, those in work and those who are registered unemployed but we do not have the policy initiatives in place for those who are not employed - that will be necessary to produce the economic growth needed from 2020," he added. The only answer was to campaign positively, to offer financial and tax incentives to the non-employed so that they were encouraged and incentivised to retrain and come back to work, Mr Humphries said. A spokeswoman for the Department for Education and Skills said it was wrong to assume that changing age patterns would create a "shortfall", as the workforce the UK needed was not a fixed quantity. "But Leitch does recognise that training the flow of young people entering the labour market cannot be enough to meet our future skills needs; nor do we believe that inward migration can ever be more than part of the answer. "People without jobs will never achieve sustained employment without the opportunity to up-skill; Leitch recognised this in his recommendations for integrating employment and skills." She added that the workforce could be expanded by extending people's working lives and helping the economically inactive into sustainable employment. E-mail this to a friend UK staff 'need time off to train' 17 Nov 06 | Business 21 Nov 06 | Education Skills training 'needs shake-up' 05 Dec 06 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest We meet Eurovision commentators from around the continent Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6637321.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Schools screening for TB begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 05:49 GMT 06:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Schools screening for TB begins Pupils at Gorseinon Junior School are among those screened Screening of 172 pupils in two Swansea schools for TB is underway after a member of staff and her three children were diagnosed with the infection. Pupils at Gorseinon Infants and Junior Schools are being offered a skin test for the disease. The National Public Health Service for Wales (NPHS) said the chances of the infection spreading within the school were very low. The four diagnosed with TB are said to be responding well to treatment. The teacher at Gorseinon Infants School has been off work since the end of March, while her children were diagnosed with TB last week. Mac Walapu, of the NPHS, said the screening for TB was normal procedure in such cases. TB can be spread from person to person He said: "The test involves injecting a small amount of purified sterile protein just under the skin in the forearm. "The test can be read two to three days later. We will be seeing every tested child later this week to read the reaction. "A positive test does not necessarily mean the child has TB. A positive result can be caused by a reaction to a previous BCG vaccination or to exposure to TB at any time in the past. "It can also be caused by exposure to other germs similar to TB which are mostly harmless." The NPHS said there would be no final results available this week and children at the two schools would be monitored until the end of June. Dr Walapu added: "We have had very good support from the education authority and staff in the school. Parents have also been very co-operative and supportive." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region TB tests offered at city schools 02 May 07 | South West Wales Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health Older TB vaccines 'work better' 18 Mar 07 | Health Drug resistant TB 'more severe' 16 Dec 06 | Health Migrants 'carry disease burden' 15 Nov 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Villagers oppose homes on fields Six children in positive TB tests Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6637321.stm	BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Schools screening for TB begins Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 05:49 GMT 06:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Schools screening for TB begins Pupils at Gorseinon Junior School are among those screened Screening of 172 pupils in two Swansea schools for TB is underway after a member of staff and her three children were diagnosed with the infection. Pupils at Gorseinon Infants and Junior Schools are being offered a skin test for the disease. The National Public Health Service for Wales (NPHS) said the chances of the infection spreading within the school were very low. The four diagnosed with TB are said to be responding well to treatment. The teacher at Gorseinon Infants School has been off work since the end of March, while her children were diagnosed with TB last week. Mac Walapu, of the NPHS, said the screening for TB was normal procedure in such cases. TB can be spread from person to person He said: "The test involves injecting a small amount of purified sterile protein just under the skin in the forearm. "The test can be read two to three days later. We will be seeing every tested child later this week to read the reaction. "A positive test does not necessarily mean the child has TB. A positive result can be caused by a reaction to a previous BCG vaccination or to exposure to TB at any time in the past. "It can also be caused by exposure to other germs similar to TB which are mostly harmless." The NPHS said there would be no final results available this week and children at the two schools would be monitored until the end of June. Dr Walapu added: "We have had very good support from the education authority and staff in the school. Parents have also been very co-operative and supportive." E-mail this to a friend News, views, travel and more from across the region TB tests offered at city schools 02 May 07 | South West Wales Tuberculosis cases 'are rising' 22 Mar 07 | Health Older TB vaccines 'work better' 18 Mar 07 | Health Drug resistant TB 'more severe' 16 Dec 06 | Health Migrants 'carry disease burden' 15 Nov 06 | Health The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Villagers oppose homes on fields Six children in positive TB tests Top vet's visit to 'sacred' bull MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486813.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Faith fuels home education boom Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 23 March 2007, 17:46 GMT E-mail this to a friend Faith fuels home education boom Jack likes the flexibility in being taught at home Thirteen-year-old Jack August sits on a small sofa in a cozy, carpeted room, reading aloud from a book about knights. All the while his playful golden retriever, Mighty, tries to sneak up on the sofa when Jack isn't looking. Jack's mother, Sue, sits alongside, asking him questions about the story. Earlier in the day, the two performed a science experiment together, using the sofa cushions and a ball fetched from the garage. This is a just another day for Jack, who is one of the two million students in the US who are homeschooled - taught by their parents at home. And he loves it. "I like the flexibility. If an opportunity to play tennis or anything else pops up I can do it and just make up the schoolwork later. "And with the one-on-one instruction, it seems you can move ahead quicker and be at a higher level of learning." And yes, says Jack, he does socialise with other children. "I have friends from church, from sports, and I do know other local homeschool kids." Until the 1970s, homeschooling was more of a necessity than a choice for American parents. Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values Homeschooling mother Sue August It took place mostly in rural areas, where schools could be long distances away and children were needed to help out with the work at home. But after the publication of several controversial books that criticised institutional schooling, the modern homeschool movement in the US began, with thousands of suburban families joining in. Still, it was not until recently that the numbers of homeschoolers really exploded - nearly doubling in the last six years. The National Home Education Research Institute (a pro-homeschool advocacy group) estimates that that around 1.5 million children were educated at home in 2000, but in 2006, the number was closer to 2.5 million. This increase is due, in large part, to the rise of Christian homeschooling - parents' choosing to teach children at home from a Biblical point of view. Now there is a vast and highly organised network of Christian homeschooling advocacy groups, legal advisers and curriculum material. Sue August says she and her husband decided to homeschool Jack even before he was born. Nothing beats schooling, some say "Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values to our son." Her husband Mark says parents can impart something that teachers can not. "Character is just as important as academics. And so what we're looking for are character training issues and we would rather do that ourselves." The Augusts use a Christian-based curriculum for teaching their son. Legally, they can teach him whatever they want. I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling Homeschool regulations vary state by state in the US, but New Jersey, where the Augusts live, has some of the most lenient. There are no requirements for attendance, training, testing, or even the use of books. While that may seem highly unorthodox to many people, Mark August says homeschooling is just a different way of looking at the world. "I understand why people look at the lack of regulation and are taken aback. But who is ultimately responsible for raising the child - is it the parent or the state?" Mark asked. "From a Biblical standpoint, it's the parents' responsibility. Parents are going to act in the best interest of their children a majority of the time." But Wendy Puriefoy, president of the advocacy group Public Education Network, in Washington DC, questions the ability of parents to provide an adequate environment for maturing as well as learning. "I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling," she said. "I worry about the lack of socialisation for youngsters outside of their families. "I worry about the access to other kinds of non-academic resources that youngsters have in public schools that you might not have in a homeschooling situation." Worlds away from Jack's comfortable sofa, a group of teenagers in a New York City public school history class are gearing up for a debate over the ideal form of government. The classroom is lively and noisy as students hunch over their institutional-style metal desks to prepare their statements and re-check their facts. When the debate finally begins the different voices, accents, opinions and academic aptitudes are apparent. But all the students are participating in their own way. Homeschool advocates might argue that this way of teaching will slow down the brighter children or prevent the slower learners from catching up. But the students in this classroom say they would not have it any other way. "When you're at school, you're pushed. Competition brings out the best in you," said 11th-grade student Frank, adding philosophically: "The most enlightened people are those who are enlightened by others." Another teenager from the class, Julia, points out what she sees as another benefit of going to school. "I wouldn't want to be around my Mom all day! "No offence, I love her, you know - but this is a nice little break away from her!" E-mail this to a friend Home schooling numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education National Home Education Research Institute Home Education Advisory Service Action for Home Education A to Z Home's Cool The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486813.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Faith fuels home education boom Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 23 March 2007, 17:46 GMT E-mail this to a friend Faith fuels home education boom Jack likes the flexibility in being taught at home Thirteen-year-old Jack August sits on a small sofa in a cozy, carpeted room, reading aloud from a book about knights. All the while his playful golden retriever, Mighty, tries to sneak up on the sofa when Jack isn't looking. Jack's mother, Sue, sits alongside, asking him questions about the story. Earlier in the day, the two performed a science experiment together, using the sofa cushions and a ball fetched from the garage. This is a just another day for Jack, who is one of the two million students in the US who are homeschooled - taught by their parents at home. And he loves it. "I like the flexibility. If an opportunity to play tennis or anything else pops up I can do it and just make up the schoolwork later. "And with the one-on-one instruction, it seems you can move ahead quicker and be at a higher level of learning." And yes, says Jack, he does socialise with other children. "I have friends from church, from sports, and I do know other local homeschool kids." Until the 1970s, homeschooling was more of a necessity than a choice for American parents. Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values Homeschooling mother Sue August It took place mostly in rural areas, where schools could be long distances away and children were needed to help out with the work at home. But after the publication of several controversial books that criticised institutional schooling, the modern homeschool movement in the US began, with thousands of suburban families joining in. Still, it was not until recently that the numbers of homeschoolers really exploded - nearly doubling in the last six years. The National Home Education Research Institute (a pro-homeschool advocacy group) estimates that that around 1.5 million children were educated at home in 2000, but in 2006, the number was closer to 2.5 million. This increase is due, in large part, to the rise of Christian homeschooling - parents' choosing to teach children at home from a Biblical point of view. Now there is a vast and highly organised network of Christian homeschooling advocacy groups, legal advisers and curriculum material. Sue August says she and her husband decided to homeschool Jack even before he was born. Nothing beats schooling, some say "Our Christian faith is pretty strong and we thought this might be the best way to be able to pass on those values to our son." Her husband Mark says parents can impart something that teachers can not. "Character is just as important as academics. And so what we're looking for are character training issues and we would rather do that ourselves." The Augusts use a Christian-based curriculum for teaching their son. Legally, they can teach him whatever they want. I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling Homeschool regulations vary state by state in the US, but New Jersey, where the Augusts live, has some of the most lenient. There are no requirements for attendance, training, testing, or even the use of books. While that may seem highly unorthodox to many people, Mark August says homeschooling is just a different way of looking at the world. "I understand why people look at the lack of regulation and are taken aback. But who is ultimately responsible for raising the child - is it the parent or the state?" Mark asked. "From a Biblical standpoint, it's the parents' responsibility. Parents are going to act in the best interest of their children a majority of the time." But Wendy Puriefoy, president of the advocacy group Public Education Network, in Washington DC, questions the ability of parents to provide an adequate environment for maturing as well as learning. "I worry about the lack of accountability in homeschooling," she said. "I worry about the lack of socialisation for youngsters outside of their families. "I worry about the access to other kinds of non-academic resources that youngsters have in public schools that you might not have in a homeschooling situation." Worlds away from Jack's comfortable sofa, a group of teenagers in a New York City public school history class are gearing up for a debate over the ideal form of government. The classroom is lively and noisy as students hunch over their institutional-style metal desks to prepare their statements and re-check their facts. When the debate finally begins the different voices, accents, opinions and academic aptitudes are apparent. But all the students are participating in their own way. Homeschool advocates might argue that this way of teaching will slow down the brighter children or prevent the slower learners from catching up. But the students in this classroom say they would not have it any other way. "When you're at school, you're pushed. Competition brings out the best in you," said 11th-grade student Frank, adding philosophically: "The most enlightened people are those who are enlightened by others." Another teenager from the class, Julia, points out what she sees as another benefit of going to school. "I wouldn't want to be around my Mom all day! "No offence, I love her, you know - but this is a nice little break away from her!" E-mail this to a friend Home schooling numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education National Home Education Research Institute Home Education Advisory Service Action for Home Education A to Z Home's Cool The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6633141.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Arts students 'plan careers less' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 11:26 GMT 12:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Arts students 'plan careers less' Media careers are the most popular job target for students Arts and humanities students are much less likely to have made plans for working after university and expect less well-paid jobs, suggests research. Almost half of arts students have no plans for after university - and expect to travel or take temporary jobs. The survey of student employment intentions shows that the most popular job areas for applications are the media, teaching and investment banking. The survey was based on 17,000 final year students. The UK Graduate Careers Survey examined students' expectations of the graduate job market - and found a much more confident, work-focused, approach from students on work-related courses. Student James Shaddock, who is reading history and history of art at Oxford Brookes University, took issue with the whole premise underlying the careers survey. "What is so wrong with not having a job lined up or making sure it pays well? Could it be that students like myself don't actually care?" he told the BBC News website. "The majority of people I know on work related degree courses are more stressed when doing coursework because they know that their future job relies on it. "Also, they lack the passion for their subjects that we arts students do. "We do our degrees for the love of the subject, not for the returns and we are encouraged to have independent thought and come up with our own opinions, whereas for someone on a work related degree there tends to only be a right answer or a wrong answer." We invited your thoughts. Here are some of the comments received: I switched from an Engineering course to a Humanities course, and the fact is that on science-based degrees, you are approached by companies, you have internships, years in industry...your career path is almost spelled out for you during your studies, whereas for the Arts, it's not that easy - what obvious career path do you have by studying a culture or linguistics? Having completed an Arts degree and knowing many people who have done the same, this is no surprise. There is no effort made to make you aware of the options available to you on completion of your degree. Many people carry on their studies because of a passion for their subject - the career comes later. Rebecca, Hull, East Yorkshire Unless you are really talented, motivated or plain lucky u dont stand a chance with an arts degree. I was an art Student and WORKED all through study, I never had sights to travel the world, I wanted to be an Artist, sadly that didnt happen but I changed my career path. I think creative minds wander, art is the outlet and travelling is the way they open and expand their minds. I think the way art is taught there is no set way to become a succesful artist and make money so people move on and travel around. Arts students are less keen on any work, not just the one starting with a capital W. Many see earning money as selling their soul, and in some cases it is: if you don't have skills to do a satisfying, intellectually demanding job, which many of them will not finish with. At university, some people are accused of putting their eggs in one basket; if they do narrowly defined courses. Arts students don't have many eggs in their basket to lose: they think less is more. Wise words from the Buddha; but it won't help getting you a job, except at the Golden Arches of Oak Brook, Illinois. It reminds me of the old joke that was doing the rounds when I was a student in the late '80s: Q: What do you say to an arts graduate with a first-class degree? A: Big Mac and fries, please! Andrew, Nuneaton, United Kingdom After finishing uni with a degree in physiotherapy, it was logical to become a physiotherapist.... Sorry i was told, no jobs. So sometimes having a plan isn't answer Lloyd Nicolson, Bristol, UK Having a plan requires planning - you should have looked at the job market before stating and realised the job market in this area was poor. It's a bit like saying "I studied really hard for 3 years to become an astronaut on the first Scottish manned flight to the Moon and now I've finished, I can't find a job anywhere!" Just because it's your plan, it doesn't mean it fits in to everyone elses. Dave (Good job and a B Sc), Winchester Why is this surprising? Arts courses are rarely vocational and don't attract the same approaches from business and industry that science and vocational courses do. Most students reading arts and humanities choose their subject because they have a passion and/or talent for it, not because they think it will bring them money and status in years to come. Consequently, they are prepared to travel, temp or take on casual jobs until they get their perfect job. I do, however, think that it's nonsense to say, as many people do, that arts students don't stand a chance of a decent career. Firstly, there are plenty of employers that are simply looking for graduates, regardless of their degree subject, and secondly, arts degrees prepare you very well for jobs in certain fields. Arts courses are less structured than science ones and require a lot of self-motivation and self-discipline. I did an English degree and my career has benefited from the fact that I learned to think laterally, to write persuasively, to order creative thought into a well-constructed argument, and countless other skills. Joanne Sheppard, Salford, UK When you consider the amount of "doss couses" available in the arts area, compared with the few in the sciences area, it's no wonder arts graduates do not have their careers mapped out. Many are studying degrees such as media and culture, purely on the basis that they are interesting, rather than the fact that they will lead to a job. We need to sort out the ridiculous amount of people going into higher education in order to sort out this new problem. After completing an Arts degree I am now doing an arts post-grad part time and working full-time. This combination makes for a minimum 50hr week, usually more. Obviously all arts graduates must be lazy! I went into an arts degree knowing it wouldn't lead to a specific job, but also knowing that any kind of degree would make me more employable in the long run. I didn't want to get stuck with a degree that I couldn't use in a subject I didn't like. Yes, it is more difficult for me to find work than an engineering graduate, but that doesn't make me lazy, it just means I have to work harder to get what I want. In the meantime I have gained a wide education, a love of learning and a lot of transferable skills. I have no regrets. I am all for students choosing subjects that they love. Just as long as when they finish their course, they dont look to the government for handouts because they are unemployable. I did an arts degree at Uni. ... I left my course and having made no plan at all whatsoever and I walked into a fairly decent job in marketing within 3 days of my final exams beating a marketing graduate (yep that¿s a work-focused course) to the role. I do resent the implication that arts students are lazy and unfocused. I had a fairly strict schedule that included visits to the library at least twice a week, a place that friends of mine doing business, engineering, computing and science courses knew of only because it was on their way to the pub. I wanted to make the most of university to open my mind; I read around my subject, they relied upon their one or two set texts. I¿m not saying that all arts students did what I did, but I dislike the generalisation. Plus my peers on ¿work-related courses¿ were horrified when they saw how much work actually went into an essay/dissertation/exam in which the marking scheme is very much grey area, for them they just had to learn to repeat the right phrases, not actually understand the concept. I¿m now doing a professional ¿work-related¿ qualification that I would have had to do even if I had a marketing degree and to be honest I keep looking for the trick question, compared to my degree it¿s a lot easier. Perhaps if arts students were valued more, given more self-worth, while stil at school they would feel nore motivated. My arts students are constantly made to feel that they are 'less bright', less worthy,less valuable than those studying the 'accepted' core subjects. What sort of educational society have we become that we can allow this to happen? Doesn't anyone value the leisure industry anymore? Does that mean that TV, film, video are all worthless to the 'educated' masses? I know that when I go to the theatre, for exaample, I see rather a lot of the 'educated' science/maths/english/mfl sorts enjoying the artists I have taught and trained. Odd that ... Julie Walker, Derby, UK To undertake a science or vocational degree takes a great deal of dedication, as they typically involve much longer hours of study than arts degrees (I did 25 hours per week versus 8 hours per week by arts friends). And only an artist would ever imagine that science was black and white - the discussions and debate over natural selection or the ethics of genetic engineering show that you must be empassioned in your work. And with regards to the career paths - well all of my artist friends are self employed but very successful in their fields. It's just a different way of doing it. James Shaddock's attitude is definately not typical of his fellow students at Oxford Brookes University. Myself, and most of the other students that also went to Brookes, have consistently been sought after graduates that have gone on to get interesting and well-paid careers. I find the suggestion that there's something wrong with NOT planning for a job whilst reading for a degree quite offensive. It's handy when a degree can lead directly into a career - but a degree only has any real value if it has value in itself. Clearly arts students have their heads screwed on right! Adam Wasenczuk, Eastleigh, UK E-mail this to a friend Design degree show on Second Life 01 May 07 | Education Does vocational equal employable? 25 Feb 06 | Education Future 'bright' for graduate jobs 31 Jan 06 | Education Media students 'most employable' 22 Nov 05 | Education Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6634725.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 12:37 GMT 13:37 UK E-mail this to a friend 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Researchers claim bullying in university is an open secret Academics who say they have been bullied are using a blog to record their experiences of alleged unfair treatment within universities. There are complaints about "Orwellian" tactics against lecturers within academic departments - and claims of staff being forced out of their jobs. "Despite the anti-bullying policies, bullying is rife across campuses," is one of the claims on a website. And it warns of a culture of secrecy surrounding such academic bullying. "The bullying of academics follows a pattern of horrendous, Orwellian elimination rituals, often hidden from the public," says the introduction to a website which carries allegations of bullying in higher education. A contributor who wants to remain anonymous says it gives a voice to academics who have been bullied. "It's a critical issue - there are people in universities almost reaching the point of suicide over this. It really is that serious," she says. As well as attacking bullies - both among academic staff and management - the website also talks of the phenomenon of "mobbing", in which lecturers gang up against a colleague. A contributor defines this as the action of "a mob, a crowd of normal people who have temporarily lost their good sense". There have been longstanding accusations that higher education has a culture of bullying. Petra Boynton at University College London has carried out research into academic bullying - and says that at any one time, between 10% and 30% of staff are being bullied. "It's a 'secret' that everyone knows," she says - with her research finding that bullies, established in positions of power, could be "getting away with it for decades". Bullying in universities is typically an insidious, prolonged undermining of individuals, she says - often against staff who feel they have little power to prevent it. "In some academic areas, it can be a very small world - and bullies can have the power to stop people progressing in their career. And if someone complains, they can be told the equivalent of 'you'll never work in this town again'." University departments can act like closed "fiefdoms", she says, with only limited opportunities for staff to expose bullying tactics - "which can be so consistent that it's almost pathological". Even when universities take action against bullies, she says this is often kept quiet - giving the impression to victims that there is little chance of their complaints being taken seriously. And for the victims, trapped in sustained bullying, she says it can lead to a destructive loss of self-confidence which can lead them to leave the academic world entirely. E-mail this to a friend Being bullied in the staffroom 20 Nov 06 | Education Bullying hits 20% of UK workers 24 Oct 06 | Business Call to tackle workplace bullying 01 Oct 06 | Business Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6636569.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Going to school 'not compulsory' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 8 May 2007, 23:06 GMT 00:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Going to school 'not compulsory' Home education frees children from the national curriculum and tests Councils in England are being reminded that parents have the right to educate their children at home if they wish. Proposed Department for Education and Skills guidelines on "elective home education" stress that education is compulsory but schooling is not. Councils should offer support to home educators, and parents must see that their children are suitably educated. But the authorities have no right to enter people's homes or make routine checks on children's progress. The department has been discussing the issue with several groups representing home educators and with local authorities. It is the legal right of parents to educate their children at home if they so wish and the Department for Education and Skills supports the right of parents to make this choice for their children It has decided not to propose any changes to current monitoring arrangements or legislation. It has dropped plans for compulsory registration of home-educated children. Instead it is proposing to issue guidelines for the first time, which point out that it is fundamental to the English system that the responsibility for educating children rests on the parents. That same principle also applies in the devolved education systems in the rest of the UK. What parents must provide is "efficient full-time education" suitable to their children's age, ability and aptitude and any special educational needs. SOME REASONS PEOPLE CHOOSE HOME EDUCATION Distance or access to school Religious, cultural or philosophical beliefs Dissatisfaction with the system Child's unwillingness or inability to go to school Parents' desire for closer relationship with children Most do this by sending their children to school, but some prefer home education. Nobody knows how many. Research commissioned by the education department said it might range between 7,400 and 34,400, while the guidance notes say it might be 40,000 and councils are working with half that number. The proposed guidance says local authorities now have a duty to try to identify children in danger of missing education. But it says they have "no statutory duties in relation to monitoring the quality of home education on a routine basis". It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way They could intervene only if they have "good reason" - it stresses - to believe parents were not providing a suitable education. They could ask parents to provide information. Parents "are under no duty to comply" though it would be "sensible" to do so. Serving a school attendance order should be "a last resort". The aim should be to build a trusting relationship between families and local officials. This is something that can be lacking at present. Some parents claim local authorities have told people to educate their children themselves, to evade their responsibilities to provide for those with special needs. And some local authority officials have said parents sometimes claim to be home educating to hide abuse. The guidelines accept that local authorities get no money for helping home educators, but say they should at least provide written information and website links. They say there will be diversity in people's approaches to education. "Children learn in different ways and at different times and speeds." Consultation on the proposed guidelines runs until the end of July. They have been welcomed by one of the main home educators' groups, Education Otherwise. "Confirmation from DfES that they have no intention of changing the existing legal framework, nor to make registration compulsory, is very good news indeed." Spokesperson Ann Newstead said they appeared to be "a welcome change to the kind of documents that home educators have seen used in the past by local authorities". Details needed to be checked. One of the accompanying documents said registering children educated at home would be made compulsory, but the department had assured her this was an earlier draft, published in error. "These are the most positive statements that have been coming out from the DfES," she said. "It really is so heart-warming to families to have their choices recognised in this way." E-mail this to a friend Home learning numbers uncertain 23 Feb 07 | Education Growth market in home education 18 Mar 05 | Education Home teaching 'needs more checks' 29 Jul 04 | Education Not missing but learning at home 06 Feb 02 | Education Department for Education and Skills consultations Action for Home Education Home Education Advisory Service The Home Service - Christian group The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation From Our Own Correspondent Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:37 GMT 00:37 UK Heads highlight building problems Head teachers warn school building projects are wasting their time and taxpayers' money. New schools 'not fit for future' Delays hit school building scheme Many new-built schools 'mediocre' Exam papers tagged to beat cheats An exam board introduces new hi-tech methods to try to combat cheating in its GCSEs and A-levels. Summer school programme grows A major expansion in summer schools for gifted and talented children is announced. City teachers could get more cash School corridor used for lessons Inquiry call over college switch Toddlers to get help with talking Action after 'taped mouths' claim Going to school 'not compulsory' LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Technology could stop exam cheating Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover Some key players pass judgement on the Blair classroom What have the Blair years brought education? Blair's son joins teaching scheme Teachers' threat over class sizes Learning to teach toughness Arts students 'plan careers less' Schools screening for TB begins 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Warning of workforce black hole Twinning plan to stop race divide Creative skills urged for primary Heads warn of exam 'meltdown' Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Faith fuels home education boom Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Toddlers to get help with talking Going to school 'not compulsory' Sats, Cats and Pips Schools repeatedly test pupils even when they do not have to How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES Hands-on projects discover young people's news agenda ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation From Our Own Correspondent Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:37 GMT 00:37 UK Heads highlight building problems Head teachers warn school building projects are wasting their time and taxpayers' money. New schools 'not fit for future' Delays hit school building scheme Many new-built schools 'mediocre' Exam papers tagged to beat cheats An exam board introduces new hi-tech methods to try to combat cheating in its GCSEs and A-levels. Summer school programme grows A major expansion in summer schools for gifted and talented children is announced. City teachers could get more cash School corridor used for lessons Inquiry call over college switch Toddlers to get help with talking Action after 'taped mouths' claim Going to school 'not compulsory' LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Technology could stop exam cheating Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover Some key players pass judgement on the Blair classroom What have the Blair years brought education? Blair's son joins teaching scheme Teachers' threat over class sizes Learning to teach toughness Arts students 'plan careers less' Schools screening for TB begins 'Bullied' academics' blog attack Warning of workforce black hole Twinning plan to stop race divide Creative skills urged for primary Heads warn of exam 'meltdown' Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Faith fuels home education boom Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Toddlers to get help with talking Going to school 'not compulsory' Sats, Cats and Pips Schools repeatedly test pupils even when they do not have to How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES Hands-on projects discover young people's news agenda ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hospital report reveals debt fear Homes revealed for hospital site Boy nets police dog bite payout MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6646689.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Sussex | School corridor used for lessons Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 14:31 GMT 15:31 UK E-mail this to a friend School corridor used for lessons The school does not have a library or a computer suite Some pupils at a West Sussex school are having to be taught in a corridor because there are not enough classrooms for all the year groups. West Green Primary School, in Crawley, used to be a first school but expanded into a primary four years ago when the education system changed. It now has seven year groups, but its building only ever had six classrooms. Council officials said plans had been drawn up to extend the school, including a temporary mobile classroom. There's no shortage of classrooms Peter Proudley, West Sussex County Council Because of the larger number of year groups, two of them have had to be combined into one room meaning not all the children can fit in. Parent Tracey Coleman said there were now more than 40 pupils in her son's class. "Because the class is so big some of the children have to be taught in the corridors," she said. Mrs Coleman added that the school also had no library, or space for computers. "You expect every school to have these facilities... we want what every other child in West Sussex has got." Peter Proudley, senior education officer at the county council, said officials were already working with the school to bring about improvements. "It has become very successful since it's become an all-through primary, and the numbers coming to this school have been coming along quicker than we anticipated. "Notwithstanding that, there's six classrooms at the moment and about 172 pupils, so there's no shortage of classrooms." The council said a mobile room would be brought on site in September when the number of pupils on the school roll will slightly exceed 180 for the first time. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Pupils at a Crawley school are being taught in the corridor Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex West Green Primary School West Sussex County Council The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hospital report reveals debt fear Homes revealed for hospital site Boy nets police dog bite payout MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6642525.stm	BBC NEWS | Scotland | Highlands and Islands | Action after 'taped mouths' claim Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 15:07 GMT 16:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Action after 'taped mouths' claim The council said the matter was referred to the police A student teacher at a primary school in Aviemore has been suspended after two pupils allegedly had their mouths taped. Police were called to Aviemore Primary School after the student reportedly used the tape to quieten the pupils. The woman was on a temporary work placement at the time as part of a training programme with the school. Highland Council said the matter was now in the hands of the procurator fiscal. In a statement Highland Council said the teacher was no longer at Aviemore Primary. It said: "The council is aware of the details of this incident and does not believe that it should take any further immediate action. "The student that was involved is no longer based at the school. "As the matter has been referred to Northern Constabulary it would be inappropriate for the council to comment further." E-mail this to a friend Fewer teacher posts remain vacant 27 Jun 06 | Scotland The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites TOP HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Jealous osprey makes up with mate Earth moves at Highland gathering Back-pay delays for health staff MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6630199.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Sunday, 6 May 2007, 13:45 GMT 14:45 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads warn over exam 'meltdown' BBC News education reporter, Bournemouth Schools are worred about an overload of exam reforms Exam reforms being introduced next year will cause chaos and lead to a fall in standards, head teachers have warned. The National Association of Head Teachers (NAHT) identified five areas of concern including new diplomas, A-level reforms and curriculum changes. It predicted "curriculum meltdown" as secondary schools in England struggled with training and timetables. The Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) said it was reasonable to expect the changes to go ahead. There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching By 2008, schools will introduce a revised curriculum at Key Stage 3, offer vocational diplomas, introduce new qualifications in functional English, maths and ICT for 14 to 19-year-olds, implement changes to GCSE English, maths and IT and prepare for A-levels designed to stretch the brightest students. The NAHT called on the government to review "this helter-skelter timetable" and to allow schools to implement changes at their own pace. Mike Stewart, head of Westlands School in Torbay, said the changes were "greater than we are in a position to take on board". "There'll be staff that go off with stress, there'll be staff who reduce the quality of their teaching, the students will lose out as a result of that," he said. Vince Burke warns of logistical problems with teaching diplomas "Standards will drop, perceived standards will drop." Vince Burke, head of John Kitto community college in Plymouth, said the logistical arrangements around the new diplomas in particular - where students will study different components in different locations - would be immense. "There are transport and funding issues, with different elements delivered in different locations," he said. "You're going to have this whole lot of administration coming up behind it." He also warned that having to train staff for the new qualifications would lose them valuable teaching time. 'Eye of the storm' Eric Fisk, head of Tanfield School, said: "It is no exaggeration to say that we are in the eye of the storm - the relative calm of knowing what we are expected to do and, to a certain extent, how we might do it, but knowing what will happen." I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Mr Fisk warned the reforms were being rushed through at "ludicrous speed" and had not been adequately piloted, evaluated or resourced. "It's an unrealistic timescale," he said. "It's the cumulative implications of implementing it all in 2008 that create the conditions for the storm that could lead to curriculum meltdown in our schools." Mick Waters, director of curriculum at the QCA, said 2008 would be a "significant year", with the introduction of diplomas and the secondary curriculum review. Mr Waters said the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) was making "strong plans" to support the introduction of the curriculum and that the feedback from school was positive. "No-one underestimates the task ahead, but it's reasonable to think it will take shape for the introduction in 2008." He said it was always the intention that the introduction of the specialised diplomas would "start slowly and build up". "I think that serious consideration is being given to the concerns being expressed," he added. E-mail this to a friend Teachers backed over Muslim wear 06 May 07 | UK Parents blamed for misbehaviour 05 May 07 | Education Head teachers demand test reforms 05 May 07 | Education Too many new initiatives - heads 05 May 07 | Education Tests 'reduce pupils to widgets' 04 May 07 | Education False claims 'fuelled by lawyers' 04 May 07 | Education National Association of Head Teachers Qualifications and Curriculum Authority Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to you brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to you brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6639087.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers learn to teach toughness Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 9 May 2007, 14:26 GMT 15:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers learn to teach toughness Children's resilience in the face of life's slings and arrows varies Teachers from England are going to the United States for coaching in teaching youngsters to be more resilient. School staff from Hertfordshire, South Tyneside and Manchester are to study a programme devised by Martin Seligman of the University of Pennsylvania. They will then target secondary school pupils, in a project supported by the London-based Young Foundation. Prof Seligman's "positive psychology" argues people can be happy and ward off depression regardless of circumstances. Manchester is sending 25 teachers to learn about it, with a view to further improving pupils' attendance and achievement. The city's children's services director, Pauline Newman, said: "This is very much about providing children and young people with the tools they need to manage their feelings and motivation and to find solutions." Some children needed help to deal with things life brought their way, she said. "All the evidence available from the programme in the USA where it was developed is that young people benefit greatly from this - their self-esteem and confidence is boosted, they feel more in control of their lives, and better able to deal with the things that happen to them." E-mail this to a friend Pupils 'need happiness lessons' 03 May 07 | Education The science of happiness 30 Apr 06 | Happiness Formula Academic credits for volunteering 19 Mar 07 | Education Why are Dutch children so happy? 14 Feb 07 | Europe UK is accused of failing children 14 Feb 07 | UK Why UK teenagers struggle to cope 02 Nov 06 | UK Penn Positive Psychology Center The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Children found sheltering in wood Drug stolen in health centre raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6445793.stm	BBC NEWS | England | Devon | Inquiry call over college switch Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 06:12 GMT 07:12 UK E-mail this to a friend Inquiry call over college switch Dartington says it cannot afford to refurbish accommodation Campaigners trying to keep Dartington College of Arts (DCA) in south Devon are calling for a government inquiry into a proposed move to Cornwall. They made the call at a meeting with the South West Regional Development Agency (RDA). DCA wants to merge with University College Falmouth with most of the £25m cost coming from EU funds. But Save Dartington College opposes EU funding to shift resources from one area of the South West to another. It says the estimated £5m a year cost to the local economy if the internationally-renowned college moves is unacceptable. Specialises in dance, drama and music 'An eccentric sort of a place' Campaigners, who have collected thousands of signatures in support, also say the local area will suffer from the loss of a major arts organisation which has been in the area since the early 1960s. Spokesman and former college principal Will Fitzgerald, who met RDA officials, said: "We are totally in favour of Cornwall becoming a thriving place with the university and the arts, but it should not be at the expense of our community and lives being destroyed in south Devon." The RDA is crucial to the move because it distributes EU convergence funding in the region. The college move is expected to cost about £25m according to a report by consultants Burns Owens for the RDA, most of which is being sought from EU convergence funding. Mr Fitzgerald said: "Moving one asset from our part of the South West to another part of the South West is not what this money is for. "If you are going to spend money on moving it, why not spend money to allow it to stay in Dartington? "It has been a stitch-up. "We want a government inquiry that considers all the options, including staying at Dartington." He added: "We are under no illusions that we are taking on formidable forces, but we are sure that what we are asking for is right." Dartington Hall Trust, which owns the college site, says that it does not have the £20m needed to update the college's facilities and therefore the college must move or face closure. Research for the RDA estimated that the south Devon area would lose about £5m a year if the college moves. An RDA spokesman said: "We have not received a formal request for funding and no decisions have been taken to allocate RDA or European funding to help relocate the college. "The assessment of any future bid would quite rightly look in detail at the current situation and weigh up the potential economic costs and benefits to the region of supporting the college's relocation to Cornwall or other options." E-mail this to a friend Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Move faces EU funds block College merger gets go-ahead Meeting over arts college future Protest day for college campaign EU funds crucial to college move Estate shows its sense of history Experimental college eyes future Town 'betrayed' by college move Dartington College of Arts Higher Education Funding Council for England South West Regional Development Agency The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Hero's return for Knox-Johnston Children found sheltering in wood Drug stolen in health centre raid MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US DJ criticised over Obama song Jealous osprey makes up with mate Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6641811.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Toddlers to get help with talking Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 10:28 GMT 11:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Toddlers to get help with talking One in 10 children have a communication disability Toddlers are to get help learning how to talk in a bid to cut the numbers of children starting school with poor language skills for their age. Half of children enter primary school unable to speak as well as they are expected to, research suggests. The Early Talk programme which uses gestures, symbols and signing to expand vocabulary, is being piloted in 200 government-backed children's centres. It will also be used to target youngsters with potential difficulties. Television doesn't respond well to children. ICAN head of Early Years Clare Geldard, head of Early Years for the charity behind the programme, I CAN, said there were concerns that the number of pre-school children with speech and language difficulties was on the rise. "We don't know why this is the case and I am sure there are a myriad of reasons. "We know that television can be used in a really productive way in terms of watching a piece of television and then having a conversation about it afterwards, but we also know that television doesn't respond well to children. "It does not give them the interactivity that children and adults instinctively seek from adults." She said the Early Talk programme was about ensuring that nursery staff, childminders and parents had the basic skills they needed to enhance children's speech, language and communication. "Everybody needs to have a basic knowledge about what we can do to enhance children's speech and language development," she said. But it was also about ensuring that those children who had the potential to go on to develop speech and language difficulties were picked up early and given the help they need. I CAN's chief executive Virginia Beardshaw said one in 10 children across the UK were thought to have a communication disability. She added that the Early Talk programme, which will ultimately be rolled out to 3,000 Sure Start children's centres, would foster environments "where communication is embedded". This would range from using pictures, symbols and gestures to teach vocabulary to using group work and specialist help from speech and language therapists, she said. Children's minister Beverley Hughes said: "Communication is a vital skill in life and we want to help all children communicate better and reap the rewards of that later in life. "This is especially important for children who have trouble communicating - particularly those with a communication disability - who are much more likely to develop behavioural and learning problems." She said she hoped the partnership being announced would play a vital role in identifying children's difficulties at an early stage. Nursery and children's centre staff will be given training and packages of support to help ensure children's language skills are polished and it is hoped this will be passed on to parents and children's carers. E-mail this to a friend Communication skills 'cut re-offending' 05 May 07 | Health 'Double blow' for autistic pupils 16 Apr 07 | Education Autism 'more common than thought' 13 Jul 06 | Health 'Two languages' call for children 21 Feb 07 | Edinburgh and East The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Heads highlight building problems Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Summer school programme grows MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW A pygmy conference in the rainforest Underground search for 'God particle' Google searches web's dark side Hero's return for Knox-Johnston US Marine 'shot unarmed Iraqis' Most popular now, in detail New plea on Madeleine's birthday Thatcher unveils Falklands arch Coalition troops missing in Iraq Eurovision's other 'Terry Wogans' Woman destroyed her unborn baby Most popular now, in detail Estonia's statue row: Hand of Moscow or sure vote-winner? Pygmies hold a conference in Congo's tropical rainforest In the Eurovision commentary box with Sir Terry Wogan Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Should Latin be compulsory in schools? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Should Latin be compulsory in schools? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653705.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Male professors outnumber women Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 12:53 GMT 13:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Male professors outnumber women More females than males are applying for university Women are still hugely outnumbered by men in senior academic posts in the UK's universities, figures reveal. There are almost six full-time male professors for every female professor, data on 2005-06 from the Higher Education Statistics Agency shows. And of the senior lecturers and researchers working in universities, less than a third (30.8%) were women. The University and College Union said institutions must act to ensure women are not stopped from reaching the top. Overall the proportion of full-time female academic staff in UK universities rose slightly from 36.1% in 2004-05 to 36.6% in 2005-06. Women want equality now, rather than to wait until their daughters and granddaughters start work UCU joint general secretary Full-time female academics accounted for 41.8% of staff members at lecturer, researcher and other grades. Although there had been a small increase (0.7%) in the proportion of females at professor and also at senior lecturer/researcher level (0.8%) since 2004-05, at other grades the gender split remained almost static. And unusually, the number of women academics generally working part-time was only slightly higher than the number of men doing so, with around 3,090 (or about 3%) more women than men working part-time out of a total of 53,465. But the gender gap emerges almost as strikingly at the most senior level among part-time academics, with nearly four-and-a-half times as many part-time male professors as female professors. However for the past decade, more women than men have been attending university as students. Redressing gender imbalances in academia, such as at senior level, is a long-term goal for the sector According to the latest figures, some 56% of those applying to university this year are women. Joint general secretary of the University and College Union, Sally Hunt, said with ever-increasing numbers of women in the profession, there was no reason why more should not be in the top jobs. Fair, open and transparent recruitment and promotion procedures were in everyone's interest, she said. "What is equally important for the future is that institutions act to ensure equality of opportunity at every point so that women who are at the start of their academic career will face fewer obstacles in getting to the top than those who came before them. "Women want equality now, rather than to wait until their daughters and granddaughters start work." A spokesman for Universities UK, the vice-chancellors' body, said: "Universities are committed to providing equal opportunity in academia, which is why Universities UK established and continues to support the Equality Challenge Unit in taking such issues forward. "The higher education sector has made substantial progress in recent years, but we are not complacent and recognise that there is always more that can be done. "Redressing gender imbalances in academia, such as at senior level, is a long-term goal for the sector." The Equality Challenge Unit said the fact there had been only small increases in female academic staff at a senior level was "very worrying". Policy adviser Saheema Rawat said the unit was committed to addressing such issues, for example by looking at systems that promoted flexible working. Chief executive of University and Colleges Employers Association Jocelyn Prudence said: "Good progress is being made across the sector with an increase in the proportion of females in senior academic roles and this is set to continue, but we recognise there is still more to do. "The proportion of female professors has more than doubled in the last 10 years with improved promotion opportunities." The HESA figures also showed that 10.7% of academic staff who chose to state their ethnic background were from an ethnic minority. Overall the number of academics employed in UK universities rose 4,220 to 164,875 in 2005-06. Just over two thirds of these (67.6%) of these were employed full-time. E-mail this to a friend Women academics narrow gender gap 24 Jun 04 | Education Students question degree gender gap 12 Feb 03 | Education Student gender gap is even wider 15 Feb 07 | Education Higher Education Statistics Agency University and College Union Department for Education and Skills Universities and Colleges Employers Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653705.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Male professors outnumber women Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 12:53 GMT 13:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Male professors outnumber women More females than males are applying for university Women are still hugely outnumbered by men in senior academic posts in the UK's universities, figures reveal. There are almost six full-time male professors for every female professor, data on 2005-06 from the Higher Education Statistics Agency shows. And of the senior lecturers and researchers working in universities, less than a third (30.8%) were women. The University and College Union said institutions must act to ensure women are not stopped from reaching the top. Overall the proportion of full-time female academic staff in UK universities rose slightly from 36.1% in 2004-05 to 36.6% in 2005-06. Women want equality now, rather than to wait until their daughters and granddaughters start work UCU joint general secretary Full-time female academics accounted for 41.8% of staff members at lecturer, researcher and other grades. Although there had been a small increase (0.7%) in the proportion of females at professor and also at senior lecturer/researcher level (0.8%) since 2004-05, at other grades the gender split remained almost static. And unusually, the number of women academics generally working part-time was only slightly higher than the number of men doing so, with around 3,090 (or about 3%) more women than men working part-time out of a total of 53,465. But the gender gap emerges almost as strikingly at the most senior level among part-time academics, with nearly four-and-a-half times as many part-time male professors as female professors. However for the past decade, more women than men have been attending university as students. Redressing gender imbalances in academia, such as at senior level, is a long-term goal for the sector According to the latest figures, some 56% of those applying to university this year are women. Joint general secretary of the University and College Union, Sally Hunt, said with ever-increasing numbers of women in the profession, there was no reason why more should not be in the top jobs. Fair, open and transparent recruitment and promotion procedures were in everyone's interest, she said. "What is equally important for the future is that institutions act to ensure equality of opportunity at every point so that women who are at the start of their academic career will face fewer obstacles in getting to the top than those who came before them. "Women want equality now, rather than to wait until their daughters and granddaughters start work." A spokesman for Universities UK, the vice-chancellors' body, said: "Universities are committed to providing equal opportunity in academia, which is why Universities UK established and continues to support the Equality Challenge Unit in taking such issues forward. "The higher education sector has made substantial progress in recent years, but we are not complacent and recognise that there is always more that can be done. "Redressing gender imbalances in academia, such as at senior level, is a long-term goal for the sector." The Equality Challenge Unit said the fact there had been only small increases in female academic staff at a senior level was "very worrying". Policy adviser Saheema Rawat said the unit was committed to addressing such issues, for example by looking at systems that promoted flexible working. Chief executive of University and Colleges Employers Association Jocelyn Prudence said: "Good progress is being made across the sector with an increase in the proportion of females in senior academic roles and this is set to continue, but we recognise there is still more to do. "The proportion of female professors has more than doubled in the last 10 years with improved promotion opportunities." The HESA figures also showed that 10.7% of academic staff who chose to state their ethnic background were from an ethnic minority. Overall the number of academics employed in UK universities rose 4,220 to 164,875 in 2005-06. Just over two thirds of these (67.6%) of these were employed full-time. E-mail this to a friend Women academics narrow gender gap 24 Jun 04 | Education Students question degree gender gap 12 Feb 03 | Education Student gender gap is even wider 15 Feb 07 | Education Higher Education Statistics Agency University and College Union Department for Education and Skills Universities and Colleges Employers Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6656675.stm	BBC NEWS | England | London | MP dons toga for history protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 08:00 GMT 09:00 UK E-mail this to a friend MP dons toga for history protest MP Boris Johnson said the subject was hugely important Conservative MP Boris Johnson donned a toga and joined students outside the House of Commons in protest at plans to scrap the last ancient history A-level. Girls from Godolphin and Latymer School in Hammersmith, west London, handed the shadow education minister a petition signed by 4,000 people. He is backing calls to halt plans by the OCR exam board to end the subject. Urging the government to step in Mr Johnson said the course was of huge importance to Britain and its culture. Speaking outside parliament on Monday the Henley-on-Thames MP said it was important not to lose a subject which could provide a route to university for many people. "I think you're getting rid of another potential route. Why not leave things as they are? It's a wonderful subject, it's well taught, let's encourage more people to do it," he said. Natasha Hausdorff, 17, one of the sixth-form students leading the campaign, said she was fighting to preserve a subject she loved and which could teach youngsters about democracy, religious confrontations and east-west relations. In March OCR said it planned to scrap ancient history saying revised A-level courses would offer students a better range of qualifications. Elements of the old ancient history exam would be taken into a new classical civilisation A-level which will be taught from September 2008. But some critics argued the new course would not examine ancient history properly. E-mail this to a friend Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Entertainment, games and chat on the BBC's Oxfordshire website Fees for A-levels may be capped 13 Apr 07 | Education Godolphin and Latymer School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Three held over 7/7 attacks freed School fights to evict paedophile Arrests over boy's bedroom murder MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6656675.stm	BBC NEWS | England | London | MP dons toga for history protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 08:00 GMT 09:00 UK E-mail this to a friend MP dons toga for history protest MP Boris Johnson said the subject was hugely important Conservative MP Boris Johnson donned a toga and joined students outside the House of Commons in protest at plans to scrap the last ancient history A-level. Girls from Godolphin and Latymer School in Hammersmith, west London, handed the shadow education minister a petition signed by 4,000 people. He is backing calls to halt plans by the OCR exam board to end the subject. Urging the government to step in Mr Johnson said the course was of huge importance to Britain and its culture. Speaking outside parliament on Monday the Henley-on-Thames MP said it was important not to lose a subject which could provide a route to university for many people. "I think you're getting rid of another potential route. Why not leave things as they are? It's a wonderful subject, it's well taught, let's encourage more people to do it," he said. Natasha Hausdorff, 17, one of the sixth-form students leading the campaign, said she was fighting to preserve a subject she loved and which could teach youngsters about democracy, religious confrontations and east-west relations. In March OCR said it planned to scrap ancient history saying revised A-level courses would offer students a better range of qualifications. Elements of the old ancient history exam would be taken into a new classical civilisation A-level which will be taught from September 2008. But some critics argued the new course would not examine ancient history properly. E-mail this to a friend Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Entertainment, games and chat on the BBC's Oxfordshire website Fees for A-levels may be capped 13 Apr 07 | Education Godolphin and Latymer School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Three held over 7/7 attacks freed School fights to evict paedophile Arrests over boy's bedroom murder MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6657331.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Extra support for dyslexic pupils Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 11:42 GMT 12:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Extra support for dyslexic pupils The project is supported by the dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People A scheme to support pupils with dyslexia has been launched in London. The project will work with schools and local authorities with a strong track record in helping dyslexic children and share their methods with other schools. The scheme, called No to Failure, will offer specialist training for teachers and create links with charities and businesses to improve education. The government has allocated £900,000 towards the project and this sum will be matched by charitable donations. No to Failure will develop an initial pilot project in the London Borough of Southwark, as a model for extension to other local authorities over the coming months. The project is part of a programme the government is running with the Training and Development Agency for Schools to improve systematically the training of trainee and serving teachers in special educational needs. Launching the initiative at Lyndhurst School in Southwark, Schools Minister Lord Adonis said it would help ensure the needs of children with dyslexia were recognised early and acted upon. "This project, bringing government and charities together, will increase awareness of the benefits to be gained from improved access to specialist support," he said. Founder of a participating dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People, Kate Griggs, said: "Lyndhurst School is a shining example of how even severely dyslexic children can be supported and succeed in mainstream school. "Success for most dyslexics isn't about specialist schools, it's about getting specialist teachers in mainstream schools so they can identify and help these children early." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How the test might work Q & A: Dyslexia 02 Sep 05 | Education Early warning test for dyslexia 22 Jan 07 | Education Scientists discover dyslexia gene 28 Oct 05 | Health Row erupts over dyslexia 'denial' 02 Sep 05 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6657331.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Extra support for dyslexic pupils Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 11:42 GMT 12:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Extra support for dyslexic pupils The project is supported by the dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People A scheme to support pupils with dyslexia has been launched in London. The project will work with schools and local authorities with a strong track record in helping dyslexic children and share their methods with other schools. The scheme, called No to Failure, will offer specialist training for teachers and create links with charities and businesses to improve education. The government has allocated £900,000 towards the project and this sum will be matched by charitable donations. No to Failure will develop an initial pilot project in the London Borough of Southwark, as a model for extension to other local authorities over the coming months. The project is part of a programme the government is running with the Training and Development Agency for Schools to improve systematically the training of trainee and serving teachers in special educational needs. Launching the initiative at Lyndhurst School in Southwark, Schools Minister Lord Adonis said it would help ensure the needs of children with dyslexia were recognised early and acted upon. "This project, bringing government and charities together, will increase awareness of the benefits to be gained from improved access to specialist support," he said. Founder of a participating dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People, Kate Griggs, said: "Lyndhurst School is a shining example of how even severely dyslexic children can be supported and succeed in mainstream school. "Success for most dyslexics isn't about specialist schools, it's about getting specialist teachers in mainstream schools so they can identify and help these children early." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How the test might work Q & A: Dyslexia 02 Sep 05 | Education Early warning test for dyslexia 22 Jan 07 | Education Scientists discover dyslexia gene 28 Oct 05 | Health Row erupts over dyslexia 'denial' 02 Sep 05 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653533.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 11:28 GMT 12:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Teachers are worried about the fairness of the music exam Teachers are accusing each other of "blatant cheating" in a forthcoming music GCSE exam. Schools are sent music CDs which are used to test pupils' listening skills. These discs can be checked several days in advance to make sure they work - but teachers are claiming some schools may use this to gain an unfair advantage. Exam board Edexcel says it is fair that teachers can check that the CD is functioning correctly - but that this is on a basis of professional trust. But there have been concerns that teachers have already been involved in online discussions about the content of the CDs to be used in this summer's exam. Music teacher Robert Steadman says that the listening part of the exam has been "compromised" and should be replaced. "This is an outrage. Surely the music teacher should not be the person checking the CD and nobody should be discussing the contents of the CD until after the exam," said Mr Steadman, who contacted the BBC News website with his concerns. 'Playing field not level' An angry exchange over the fairness of the procedure broke out on a teachers' forum on the website of the Times Educational Supplement. It revolves around a CD of music extracts supplied by the exam board for use in the listening paper for GCSE music. There are claims that teachers who check the CD in advance will be able to target their pupils' last-minute revision accordingly - using this as a way of leaking the contents. "Some teachers know what music is going to be on next week's exam? And by that rationale, they know what's not?" wrote one. "So someone knows that for example, there isn't a piece of gamelan on the exam. Are they still going to revise gamelan with their classes?" Others defended the pre-listening - with one saying "there is a world of difference between checking to see if a CD actually works and working out the questions". But this drew an incredulous response from another contributor: "I am appalled that you were even give the CD, your exams officer is a numpty! and you are blatantly cheating... the playing field is certainly not level." Another challenged the plausibility of allowing teachers to know what was in an exam - and for that not to influence their remaining teaching time. "I do not believe that anyone who has heard the CD for a listening exam will not bias their lessons during the coming week when pupils are still getting confused about things that they [the teacher] knows will not appear on the paper." A number of those contributing to this debate said they would contact exam board Edexcel to warn them of their worries about the fairness of this process. Edexcel says that it sends discs to exam centres in advance so that pupils are not disadvantaged by a faulty CD - allowing time for schools to get a replacement if necessary. And it says that its procedures are designed to ensure that the exam is "secure and fair for all candidates". The recordings on the CD should be checked "under strict security", a spokesperson said. "Any information gleaned from checking the recordings must remain confidential until the examination has been sat by the candidates." The Examination Officers' Association says that subject teachers are allowed to check discs by some exam boards - and that they are "trusted to get on with it in a professional way". Discs and tapes are sent out for exams in other subjects - such as modern languages - with an exams officer pointing out in an e-mail to the BBC News website that a school could receive 80 such recordings for the exam season. Not all exam boards allow teachers to check music discs beforehand. AQA says that it "specifically instructs teachers not to open the packages containing the CDs before our exams". A spokesperson for the AQA exam board said problems with CDs were "highly unlikely" and that as a back-up, two CDs are sent to exam centres. If there was a further failure, another disc would be sent by courier and the start of the exam could be delayed. Send us your comments on this story, using the form below. This is a definite breach of security. The materials received should be dealt with by an Examinations Officer. Teachers of the subjects should not be allowed access to the material until the day of the exam; even then this should again be dealt with by the Exams Officer. Security should be paramount when it comes to examinations. To then discuss their findings online is an absolute disgrace. From the Examination Officers' Association: Exam officers try their best to deliver what the exam system demands following the rules and regulations laid down by Awarding Bodies, who are over seen by QCA. The procedure in the past regarding this issue is for exam officers to pass any discs over to a subject staff to check to see if they work. You can not have students sitting there ready to go on the day of the exam with the prospect of faulty discs. Unlike papers they cannot be emailed or faxed on the day if there was a problem. A specific time should be agreed to do the checks and to get discs back ready for the exam period. Trust and professional respect for fellow staff in important here. If centres had faultless discs then, like papers, this would not be an issue! The reality is things do go wrong for no specific reason and therefore people doing the job have to be trusted to get on with it in a professional way. My daughter takes her exam tomorrow so I hope her music teacher hasn't cheated! Agree there should be better methods - CDs have been around for a while so presumably the cheating option has been too! It should be straightforward - the examinations officer for each school should check the CD. The subject teachers should be told only that the CD is functioning properly or not. The content should not, I feel, be revealed in advance. Exam office staff should check the CD - obviously. Anything else should be dealt with as malpractice... This sort of thing needs to be sorted properly before there are even more concerns about 'easier exams'. Jerry Cullum, Alton, Hampshire The person who checks the CD should be unconnected with the school's music department, eg the Exam Officer or head teacher. The situation would then be parallel to other examination papers, which are kept secure until needed. As an Exams Officer, I have not got time to check every cassette or CD that arrives (about 80 in total). It is not just music - all language exam tapes/CDs need to be checked for GCSE and AS/A levels I have to rely on my colleagues' integrity, which, fortunately, I can. Can't Edexcel test the CDs before they send them out? I agree with Jan... Surely it should be the sole responsibility of Edexcel to check the disks are working before sending them out? The only thing the schools should test is whether their individual CD players and sound systems work. If the teachers themselves get a chance to listen to the music, even if it is just testing, it would be impossible for what they hear not to influence their teaching - either consciously or sub-consciously. Why are these exams still utilising old fashioned methods of delivery? If these exams were delivered through a secure server there would be no need for disks or testing and would eliminate the possibility of cheating being inferred. With the advent of MP3/ iPods and so on, why are exam boards even bothering with CDs at all? The examination material should be streamed over a broadband internet connection established from each participating exam centre at the given time. The broadband link could be tested in advance without recourse to accessing the exam material until the appointed time. We ran a French A-level aural (listening) exam using computer sound files rather than the issued tapes, after discussion with our exam board the transfer was made by an IT technician under the supervision of a French-speaking ICT teacher... the languages department never came near it! Kat and Andrew are right to mention modern delivery methods, but maybe haven't seen the standard of the IT facilities at some of the schools I've worked. Relying on a broadband connection to stream live music exam pieces is about as realistic as taking English comprehension exams set in alphabetti spaghetti. When I took A level sciences in the 1980s we would always have a 'practice' practical exam a few weeks before the A level that turned out to be exactly the same as the real practical exam. So this sort of thing has been going on for a long time. This is the tip of the iceberg teachers and school cheat and twist the system in a lot of ways in my experience. We were given the entire list of actual questions, and answers to memorise, for our German oral exam some 20 years ago. There will always be poor teachers that feel the need to cheat on behalf of their students, in order to cover the fact they are failing at their job. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats 10 May 07 | Education Mobiles fuel exam cheating rise 26 Mar 06 | Education Move to end more GCSE coursework 06 Oct 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653533.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 11:28 GMT 12:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Teachers are worried about the fairness of the music exam Teachers are accusing each other of "blatant cheating" in a forthcoming music GCSE exam. Schools are sent music CDs which are used to test pupils' listening skills. These discs can be checked several days in advance to make sure they work - but teachers are claiming some schools may use this to gain an unfair advantage. Exam board Edexcel says it is fair that teachers can check that the CD is functioning correctly - but that this is on a basis of professional trust. But there have been concerns that teachers have already been involved in online discussions about the content of the CDs to be used in this summer's exam. Music teacher Robert Steadman says that the listening part of the exam has been "compromised" and should be replaced. "This is an outrage. Surely the music teacher should not be the person checking the CD and nobody should be discussing the contents of the CD until after the exam," said Mr Steadman, who contacted the BBC News website with his concerns. 'Playing field not level' An angry exchange over the fairness of the procedure broke out on a teachers' forum on the website of the Times Educational Supplement. It revolves around a CD of music extracts supplied by the exam board for use in the listening paper for GCSE music. There are claims that teachers who check the CD in advance will be able to target their pupils' last-minute revision accordingly - using this as a way of leaking the contents. "Some teachers know what music is going to be on next week's exam? And by that rationale, they know what's not?" wrote one. "So someone knows that for example, there isn't a piece of gamelan on the exam. Are they still going to revise gamelan with their classes?" Others defended the pre-listening - with one saying "there is a world of difference between checking to see if a CD actually works and working out the questions". But this drew an incredulous response from another contributor: "I am appalled that you were even give the CD, your exams officer is a numpty! and you are blatantly cheating... the playing field is certainly not level." Another challenged the plausibility of allowing teachers to know what was in an exam - and for that not to influence their remaining teaching time. "I do not believe that anyone who has heard the CD for a listening exam will not bias their lessons during the coming week when pupils are still getting confused about things that they [the teacher] knows will not appear on the paper." A number of those contributing to this debate said they would contact exam board Edexcel to warn them of their worries about the fairness of this process. Edexcel says that it sends discs to exam centres in advance so that pupils are not disadvantaged by a faulty CD - allowing time for schools to get a replacement if necessary. And it says that its procedures are designed to ensure that the exam is "secure and fair for all candidates". The recordings on the CD should be checked "under strict security", a spokesperson said. "Any information gleaned from checking the recordings must remain confidential until the examination has been sat by the candidates." The Examination Officers' Association says that subject teachers are allowed to check discs by some exam boards - and that they are "trusted to get on with it in a professional way". Discs and tapes are sent out for exams in other subjects - such as modern languages - with an exams officer pointing out in an e-mail to the BBC News website that a school could receive 80 such recordings for the exam season. Not all exam boards allow teachers to check music discs beforehand. AQA says that it "specifically instructs teachers not to open the packages containing the CDs before our exams". A spokesperson for the AQA exam board said problems with CDs were "highly unlikely" and that as a back-up, two CDs are sent to exam centres. If there was a further failure, another disc would be sent by courier and the start of the exam could be delayed. Send us your comments on this story, using the form below. This is a definite breach of security. The materials received should be dealt with by an Examinations Officer. Teachers of the subjects should not be allowed access to the material until the day of the exam; even then this should again be dealt with by the Exams Officer. Security should be paramount when it comes to examinations. To then discuss their findings online is an absolute disgrace. From the Examination Officers' Association: Exam officers try their best to deliver what the exam system demands following the rules and regulations laid down by Awarding Bodies, who are over seen by QCA. The procedure in the past regarding this issue is for exam officers to pass any discs over to a subject staff to check to see if they work. You can not have students sitting there ready to go on the day of the exam with the prospect of faulty discs. Unlike papers they cannot be emailed or faxed on the day if there was a problem. A specific time should be agreed to do the checks and to get discs back ready for the exam period. Trust and professional respect for fellow staff in important here. If centres had faultless discs then, like papers, this would not be an issue! The reality is things do go wrong for no specific reason and therefore people doing the job have to be trusted to get on with it in a professional way. My daughter takes her exam tomorrow so I hope her music teacher hasn't cheated! Agree there should be better methods - CDs have been around for a while so presumably the cheating option has been too! It should be straightforward - the examinations officer for each school should check the CD. The subject teachers should be told only that the CD is functioning properly or not. The content should not, I feel, be revealed in advance. Exam office staff should check the CD - obviously. Anything else should be dealt with as malpractice... This sort of thing needs to be sorted properly before there are even more concerns about 'easier exams'. Jerry Cullum, Alton, Hampshire The person who checks the CD should be unconnected with the school's music department, eg the Exam Officer or head teacher. The situation would then be parallel to other examination papers, which are kept secure until needed. As an Exams Officer, I have not got time to check every cassette or CD that arrives (about 80 in total). It is not just music - all language exam tapes/CDs need to be checked for GCSE and AS/A levels I have to rely on my colleagues' integrity, which, fortunately, I can. Can't Edexcel test the CDs before they send them out? I agree with Jan... Surely it should be the sole responsibility of Edexcel to check the disks are working before sending them out? The only thing the schools should test is whether their individual CD players and sound systems work. If the teachers themselves get a chance to listen to the music, even if it is just testing, it would be impossible for what they hear not to influence their teaching - either consciously or sub-consciously. Why are these exams still utilising old fashioned methods of delivery? If these exams were delivered through a secure server there would be no need for disks or testing and would eliminate the possibility of cheating being inferred. With the advent of MP3/ iPods and so on, why are exam boards even bothering with CDs at all? The examination material should be streamed over a broadband internet connection established from each participating exam centre at the given time. The broadband link could be tested in advance without recourse to accessing the exam material until the appointed time. We ran a French A-level aural (listening) exam using computer sound files rather than the issued tapes, after discussion with our exam board the transfer was made by an IT technician under the supervision of a French-speaking ICT teacher... the languages department never came near it! Kat and Andrew are right to mention modern delivery methods, but maybe haven't seen the standard of the IT facilities at some of the schools I've worked. Relying on a broadband connection to stream live music exam pieces is about as realistic as taking English comprehension exams set in alphabetti spaghetti. When I took A level sciences in the 1980s we would always have a 'practice' practical exam a few weeks before the A level that turned out to be exactly the same as the real practical exam. So this sort of thing has been going on for a long time. This is the tip of the iceberg teachers and school cheat and twist the system in a lot of ways in my experience. We were given the entire list of actual questions, and answers to memorise, for our German oral exam some 20 years ago. There will always be poor teachers that feel the need to cheat on behalf of their students, in order to cover the fact they are failing at their job. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats 10 May 07 | Education Mobiles fuel exam cheating rise 26 Mar 06 | Education Move to end more GCSE coursework 06 Oct 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6653167.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US teachers stage mock gun attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 09:39 GMT 10:39 UK E-mail this to a friend US teachers stage mock gun attack The "prank" comes in the wake of the Virginia Tech massacre Teachers at a US school have been criticised after staging a fake gun attack during a class trip, telling children it was not a drill. Many of the 69 pupils, aged about 11, were reduced to tears when they were told to hide under tables and keep quiet as a gunman was on the loose. Parents of the children, who attended Scales Elementary school in Tennessee, were said to be furious at the "stunt". The school spoke of "poor judgment" but did not comment on disciplinary action. Students on the week-long school field trip had been told to expect a "campfire prank" but the mock attack went too far, local education officials said in a statement on Sunday. The incident lasted about five minutes and was intended to be a learning experience, said the school's assistant principal, Don Bartch, who led the trip. "We got together and discussed what we would have done in a real situation," AP news agency quoted Mr Bartch as saying. One pupil said the lights went out and about 20 children started to cry. A teacher, wearing a hooded jumper, also pulled at a locked door. "I was like 'Oh My God.' At first I thought I was going to die. We flipped out," said 11-year-old pupil Shay Naylor. The move angered many of the children's parents - especially in the light of last month's massacre at Virginia Tech university, where a student killed 32 people and himself. "The children were in that room in the dark, begging for their lives, because they thought there was someone with a gun after them," said Brandy Cole, whose son was on the trip. The director of schools is to decide what action - if any - should be taken against the staff involved. E-mail this to a friend US university shooting kills 33 17 Apr 07 | Americas US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6653167.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US teachers stage mock gun attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 09:39 GMT 10:39 UK E-mail this to a friend US teachers stage mock gun attack The "prank" comes in the wake of the Virginia Tech massacre Teachers at a US school have been criticised after staging a fake gun attack during a class trip, telling children it was not a drill. Many of the 69 pupils, aged about 11, were reduced to tears when they were told to hide under tables and keep quiet as a gunman was on the loose. Parents of the children, who attended Scales Elementary school in Tennessee, were said to be furious at the "stunt". The school spoke of "poor judgment" but did not comment on disciplinary action. Students on the week-long school field trip had been told to expect a "campfire prank" but the mock attack went too far, local education officials said in a statement on Sunday. The incident lasted about five minutes and was intended to be a learning experience, said the school's assistant principal, Don Bartch, who led the trip. "We got together and discussed what we would have done in a real situation," AP news agency quoted Mr Bartch as saying. One pupil said the lights went out and about 20 children started to cry. A teacher, wearing a hooded jumper, also pulled at a locked door. "I was like 'Oh My God.' At first I thought I was going to die. We flipped out," said 11-year-old pupil Shay Naylor. The move angered many of the children's parents - especially in the light of last month's massacre at Virginia Tech university, where a student killed 32 people and himself. "The children were in that room in the dark, begging for their lives, because they thought there was someone with a gun after them," said Brandy Cole, whose son was on the trip. The director of schools is to decide what action - if any - should be taken against the staff involved. E-mail this to a friend US university shooting kills 33 17 Apr 07 | Americas US to ignore Russia missile fears Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to your brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to your brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6653969.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 12:35 GMT 13:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Prime Minister John Howard has announced new powers for teachers An Australian teenager has won record damages after a court found that his school "grossly failed" in its duty to protect him from a school bully. Benjamin Cox, now 18, was regularly teased and beaten from the age of five by an older pupil, leaving him with psychiatric problems, a court heard. He was awarded A$213,000 (US$177,000, £90,000) plus a lifetime income that is likely to take his payout beyond $1m. Australia's PM has made plans to give teachers more power to tackle bullying. Mr Cox was bullied by a disturbed student at Woodberry Public School, leaving him with severe psychiatric problems and robbing him of his childhood, the New South Wales Supreme Court heard. His adolescence has been all but destroyed; his adulthood will not be any better The boy's mother, Angela Cox, told the court that her son was "petrified" of going to school and was unable to finish his education. She said Benjamin began to suffer headaches and nightmares, cried all the time and developed a stutter, adding that on one occasion the bully had tried to strangle her son. When she reported the abuse to the police and the school authorities, Mrs Cox said she was told by a department of education officer that "bullying builds character". Judge Carolyn Simpson accepted evidence that the bullying had led to the teenager's current psychiatric condition and ruled the school had "grossly failed" in its duty of care. She said: "His adolescence has been all but destroyed; his adulthood will not be any better. He will never know the satisfaction of employment. "He will suffer anxiety and depression, almost certainly, for the rest of his life. He has no friends and is unlikely to make any." E-mail this to a friend Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Russia and Burma in nuclear deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6653969.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 12:35 GMT 13:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Prime Minister John Howard has announced new powers for teachers An Australian teenager has won record damages after a court found that his school "grossly failed" in its duty to protect him from a school bully. Benjamin Cox, now 18, was regularly teased and beaten from the age of five by an older pupil, leaving him with psychiatric problems, a court heard. He was awarded A$213,000 (US$177,000, £90,000) plus a lifetime income that is likely to take his payout beyond $1m. Australia's PM has made plans to give teachers more power to tackle bullying. Mr Cox was bullied by a disturbed student at Woodberry Public School, leaving him with severe psychiatric problems and robbing him of his childhood, the New South Wales Supreme Court heard. His adolescence has been all but destroyed; his adulthood will not be any better The boy's mother, Angela Cox, told the court that her son was "petrified" of going to school and was unable to finish his education. She said Benjamin began to suffer headaches and nightmares, cried all the time and developed a stutter, adding that on one occasion the bully had tried to strangle her son. When she reported the abuse to the police and the school authorities, Mrs Cox said she was told by a department of education officer that "bullying builds character". Judge Carolyn Simpson accepted evidence that the bullying had led to the teenager's current psychiatric condition and ruled the school had "grossly failed" in its duty of care. She said: "His adolescence has been all but destroyed; his adulthood will not be any better. He will never know the satisfaction of employment. "He will suffer anxiety and depression, almost certainly, for the rest of his life. He has no friends and is unlikely to make any." E-mail this to a friend Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Russia and Burma in nuclear deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653729.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair applauds school rebuilding Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 13:20 GMT 14:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair applauds school rebuilding A government brochure showcases new school buildings The government says its programme of school refurbishment across England in the past 10 years is "truly historic". The Department for Education and Skills said there had been 1,106 new schools, 27,000 new or improved classrooms and 1,260 new children's centres. Prime Minister Tony Blair said good facilities were vital for a good education. On a farewell tour, he said 140 more schools would become trusts. School leaders have warned of ongoing problems with some building projects. The Association of School and College Leaders said in a report submitted to the education department (DfES) that unresolved "legacy issues" with Private Finance Initiative projects were sapping head teachers' time and energy. Mr Blair is visiting five education establishments in England, as he prepares to hand over the leadership of the Labour Party. As he set off on the tour, the Department for Education and Skills published a 64-page brochure about the school refurbishment record. It is claiming "seven classrooms built or upgraded every day for 10 years". In a foreword, Mr Blair said: "The programme of renewal is truly historic. It compares to the legacy of the Victorians and the post-war generation." The prime minister said the investment would continue so that "every child has the modern facilities they deserve by 2020". He has also announced that more than 140 primary, secondary and special schools have applied to become trusts in the last six months, alongside 69 full pathfinder schools piloting the new status. There are now plans "to work towards" having 300 schools converted or committed to trust status by the end of the year. The director of the British Council for School Environments, Ty Goddard, said the unprecedented investment was a huge opportunity to transform education and communities. But he added: "The procedure of securing money through capital investment programmes for schools is complicated and time consuming, and doesn't allow enough room for teachers and pupils to be properly involved in the design and build process." Shadow Education Secretary David Willetts said the truth was we had got fewer bigger schools, which was not what parents wanted. "For example, Labour boast that there are 96 new special schools, but the truth is that 146 have closed since 1997, with a net loss of 9,000 special school places. Blair's government is spinning to the end." The report from head teachers about concerns with building work struck a chord with Peter Harrison, chair of governors at The Hazeley School, Milton Keynes. It did open on time, but with a marquee providing the only large spaces and that only because the governors had foreseen the problem The first of three building phases was due to have been completed in July 2005, ready for that September. "It did open on time, but with a marquee providing the only large spaces and that only because the governors had foreseen the problem and insisted on it being available as a contingency," he said. In an online diary about the project, Hazeley head teacher Iain Denning at the time praised the dedication of his staff. "They are the ones who made BT connect the phones, got the IT system to work, called the power company to make sure we had power, worked all through the summer including weekends, moved furniture, carried boxes and sorted deliveries, made do with toilets with no power and no doors," he wrote. Mr Harrison said the builders were still there, even though the next phase was underway with different contractors. "Despite these problems and the time that professional school staff have to spend on managing the workarounds, Ofsted judged the school as "outstanding". "How much better could we be without having to constantly deal with building project problems?" Milton Keynes Council said in a statement: "We acknowledge that there are ongoing faults with the construction of some parts of the building and are working with the contractor to resolve them." E-mail this to a friend Heads highlight building problems 11 May 07 | Education 10 May 07 | Education Blair's classroom: the verdict 10 May 07 | Education British Council for School Environments Teachernet: Better Buildings [PDF] The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653729.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair applauds school rebuilding Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 13:20 GMT 14:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair applauds school rebuilding A government brochure showcases new school buildings The government says its programme of school refurbishment across England in the past 10 years is "truly historic". The Department for Education and Skills said there had been 1,106 new schools, 27,000 new or improved classrooms and 1,260 new children's centres. Prime Minister Tony Blair said good facilities were vital for a good education. On a farewell tour, he said 140 more schools would become trusts. School leaders have warned of ongoing problems with some building projects. The Association of School and College Leaders said in a report submitted to the education department (DfES) that unresolved "legacy issues" with Private Finance Initiative projects were sapping head teachers' time and energy. Mr Blair is visiting five education establishments in England, as he prepares to hand over the leadership of the Labour Party. As he set off on the tour, the Department for Education and Skills published a 64-page brochure about the school refurbishment record. It is claiming "seven classrooms built or upgraded every day for 10 years". In a foreword, Mr Blair said: "The programme of renewal is truly historic. It compares to the legacy of the Victorians and the post-war generation." The prime minister said the investment would continue so that "every child has the modern facilities they deserve by 2020". He has also announced that more than 140 primary, secondary and special schools have applied to become trusts in the last six months, alongside 69 full pathfinder schools piloting the new status. There are now plans "to work towards" having 300 schools converted or committed to trust status by the end of the year. The director of the British Council for School Environments, Ty Goddard, said the unprecedented investment was a huge opportunity to transform education and communities. But he added: "The procedure of securing money through capital investment programmes for schools is complicated and time consuming, and doesn't allow enough room for teachers and pupils to be properly involved in the design and build process." Shadow Education Secretary David Willetts said the truth was we had got fewer bigger schools, which was not what parents wanted. "For example, Labour boast that there are 96 new special schools, but the truth is that 146 have closed since 1997, with a net loss of 9,000 special school places. Blair's government is spinning to the end." The report from head teachers about concerns with building work struck a chord with Peter Harrison, chair of governors at The Hazeley School, Milton Keynes. It did open on time, but with a marquee providing the only large spaces and that only because the governors had foreseen the problem The first of three building phases was due to have been completed in July 2005, ready for that September. "It did open on time, but with a marquee providing the only large spaces and that only because the governors had foreseen the problem and insisted on it being available as a contingency," he said. In an online diary about the project, Hazeley head teacher Iain Denning at the time praised the dedication of his staff. "They are the ones who made BT connect the phones, got the IT system to work, called the power company to make sure we had power, worked all through the summer including weekends, moved furniture, carried boxes and sorted deliveries, made do with toilets with no power and no doors," he wrote. Mr Harrison said the builders were still there, even though the next phase was underway with different contractors. "Despite these problems and the time that professional school staff have to spend on managing the workarounds, Ofsted judged the school as "outstanding". "How much better could we be without having to constantly deal with building project problems?" Milton Keynes Council said in a statement: "We acknowledge that there are ongoing faults with the construction of some parts of the building and are working with the contractor to resolve them." E-mail this to a friend Heads highlight building problems 11 May 07 | Education 10 May 07 | Education Blair's classroom: the verdict 10 May 07 | Education British Council for School Environments Teachernet: Better Buildings [PDF] The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6654935.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Council calls time on classrooms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Council calls time on classrooms There will be no formal timetables at the new learning centres A council is calling time on formal classes and rigid timetables amid plans to rebuild all 11 of its secondary schools as hi-tech learning centres. Merseyside's Knowsley Council is replacing 1950s-style secondary schools with centres where children follow programmes matching their interests. Pupils will be given their assignments in groups of 120 in the morning before dispersing to wi-fi zones to study. The council hopes the £150m rebuilding programme will boost attainment. Under the plans traditional classrooms and timetables will be replaced by flexible learning packages which pupils will follow both at the learning centres and from home. What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time It is part of the government's £45bn Building Schools for the Future programme through which every school in the country is supposed to be rebuilt by 2020. Once built in 2009, Knowsley's seven learning centres will remain open from 7am to 10pm and throughout the traditional holiday period. And the teachers working in the schools will take on roles as "facilitators" and "coaches", depending on negotiations with the unions. The centres will also host courses for adults to upgrade their skills and improve their education alongside pupils. The whole project will rely heavily on the latest computer technology likely to be provided by RM while Microsoft provides expert advice to the council. Knowsley's director of transformation within children's services, Nick Page, stressed there would be stringent financial penalties if the technology fell short of what was expected. He said that all the research suggested that children, young people, parents and employers wanted "different types of products" from the education system. Employers across the world wanted people who were adaptive and quick to learn, rather than those with the traditional 10 GCSEs, he added. "What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time. "We have taken the best and most innovative practice from around the world but we are one of the few areas to put it all together in a package across the local authority and our schools." He added that nobody knew what the next generation of technological advances would bring, but Knowsley was trying to ensure it had the flexibility in its learning centres to use it. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education The shape of schools to come? 19 Jan 07 | Education Schools building project defended 18 Jan 07 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6654935.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Council calls time on classrooms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Council calls time on classrooms There will be no formal timetables at the new learning centres A council is calling time on formal classes and rigid timetables amid plans to rebuild all 11 of its secondary schools as hi-tech learning centres. Merseyside's Knowsley Council is replacing 1950s-style secondary schools with centres where children follow programmes matching their interests. Pupils will be given their assignments in groups of 120 in the morning before dispersing to wi-fi zones to study. The council hopes the £150m rebuilding programme will boost attainment. Under the plans traditional classrooms and timetables will be replaced by flexible learning packages which pupils will follow both at the learning centres and from home. What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time It is part of the government's £45bn Building Schools for the Future programme through which every school in the country is supposed to be rebuilt by 2020. Once built in 2009, Knowsley's seven learning centres will remain open from 7am to 10pm and throughout the traditional holiday period. And the teachers working in the schools will take on roles as "facilitators" and "coaches", depending on negotiations with the unions. The centres will also host courses for adults to upgrade their skills and improve their education alongside pupils. The whole project will rely heavily on the latest computer technology likely to be provided by RM while Microsoft provides expert advice to the council. Knowsley's director of transformation within children's services, Nick Page, stressed there would be stringent financial penalties if the technology fell short of what was expected. He said that all the research suggested that children, young people, parents and employers wanted "different types of products" from the education system. Employers across the world wanted people who were adaptive and quick to learn, rather than those with the traditional 10 GCSEs, he added. "What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time. "We have taken the best and most innovative practice from around the world but we are one of the few areas to put it all together in a package across the local authority and our schools." He added that nobody knew what the next generation of technological advances would bring, but Knowsley was trying to ensure it had the flexibility in its learning centres to use it. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education The shape of schools to come? 19 Jan 07 | Education Schools building project defended 18 Jan 07 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6655597.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Academy call for private schools Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 17:46 GMT 18:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Academy call for private schools Tony Blair travelled by helicopter on a farewell tour of schools Private schools are being urged to take part in the government's project to create 400 academies in England. As Tony Blair took part in a whirlwind visit to schools across the country, a new prospectus was published inviting participation in the academy scheme. Academies have private backers and are outside council control but conform to admissions rules and charge no fees. So far two private schools have "opted in" to the state system this way, and the prospectus urges others to do so. "High performing independent day schools are eligible to be considered for academy status where they can increase the supply of high quality school places serving diverse communities," it says. "Two such schools have now become academies - Belvedere School in Liverpool, and William Hulme Grammar School in Manchester. "The government would welcome other suitable independent schools wishing to join the programme." By autumn 2007, there will be 80 academies open - with another 50 expected to open by autumn 2008. This is in spite of opposition from education unions and a growing anti-academies campaign. A Commons motion put down by Labour MP Ken Purchase complains that the programme "is diverting tax payers' funds into the hands of super-rich sponsors, most of whom have no record of successful education management". Among the types of academy set out by the Department for Education and Skills prospectus are "academy federations", where stronger schools support weaker schools; private schools adopting academy status and "all-through academies", in which schools take pupils from the age of three upwards. Another element of Tony Blair's education legacy is the drive for schools to adopt "trust" status - in which schools and groups of schools have greater autonomy and can co-operate with outside organisations though there is no financial sponsorship. The government announced that 200 schools were seeking trust status - which it says is ahead of projections. The latest target is now to have 300 schools either converted or on track for trust status by the end of the year. The £10,000 offered to "early adopters" to support their application to become a trust has been extended until October. Universities and further education colleges are working with these trusts - and other organisations include Microsoft, the Co-operative group, Unilever and Barnardos. E-mail this to a friend PM Blair praises academy schools 14 May 07 | Northamptonshire City academies are future - Blair 30 Mar 07 | Politics Why the fuss over city academies? 17 Mar 05 | Education Specialist Schools and Academies Trust The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6655597.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Academy call for private schools Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 17:46 GMT 18:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Academy call for private schools Tony Blair travelled by helicopter on a farewell tour of schools Private schools are being urged to take part in the government's project to create 400 academies in England. As Tony Blair took part in a whirlwind visit to schools across the country, a new prospectus was published inviting participation in the academy scheme. Academies have private backers and are outside council control but conform to admissions rules and charge no fees. So far two private schools have "opted in" to the state system this way, and the prospectus urges others to do so. "High performing independent day schools are eligible to be considered for academy status where they can increase the supply of high quality school places serving diverse communities," it says. "Two such schools have now become academies - Belvedere School in Liverpool, and William Hulme Grammar School in Manchester. "The government would welcome other suitable independent schools wishing to join the programme." By autumn 2007, there will be 80 academies open - with another 50 expected to open by autumn 2008. This is in spite of opposition from education unions and a growing anti-academies campaign. A Commons motion put down by Labour MP Ken Purchase complains that the programme "is diverting tax payers' funds into the hands of super-rich sponsors, most of whom have no record of successful education management". Among the types of academy set out by the Department for Education and Skills prospectus are "academy federations", where stronger schools support weaker schools; private schools adopting academy status and "all-through academies", in which schools take pupils from the age of three upwards. Another element of Tony Blair's education legacy is the drive for schools to adopt "trust" status - in which schools and groups of schools have greater autonomy and can co-operate with outside organisations though there is no financial sponsorship. The government announced that 200 schools were seeking trust status - which it says is ahead of projections. The latest target is now to have 300 schools either converted or on track for trust status by the end of the year. The £10,000 offered to "early adopters" to support their application to become a trust has been extended until October. Universities and further education colleges are working with these trusts - and other organisations include Microsoft, the Co-operative group, Unilever and Barnardos. E-mail this to a friend PM Blair praises academy schools 14 May 07 | Northamptonshire City academies are future - Blair 30 Mar 07 | Politics Why the fuss over city academies? 17 Mar 05 | Education Specialist Schools and Academies Trust The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6654935.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Council calls time on classrooms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Council calls time on classrooms There will be no formal timetables at the new learning centres A council is calling time on formal classes and rigid timetables amid plans to rebuild all 11 of its secondary schools as hi-tech learning centres. Merseyside's Knowsley Council is replacing 1950s-style secondary schools with centres where children follow programmes matching their interests. Pupils will be given their assignments in groups of 120 in the morning before dispersing to wi-fi zones to study. The council hopes the £150m rebuilding programme will boost attainment. Under the plans traditional classrooms and timetables will be replaced by flexible learning packages which pupils will follow both at the learning centres and from home. What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time It is part of the government's £45bn Building Schools for the Future programme through which every school in the country is supposed to be rebuilt by 2020. Once built in 2009, Knowsley's seven learning centres will remain open from 7am to 10pm and throughout the traditional holiday period. And the teachers working in the schools will take on roles as "facilitators" and "coaches", depending on negotiations with the unions. The centres will also host courses for adults to upgrade their skills and improve their education alongside pupils. The whole project will rely heavily on the latest computer technology likely to be provided by RM while Microsoft provides expert advice to the council. Knowsley's director of transformation within children's services, Nick Page, stressed there would be stringent financial penalties if the technology fell short of what was expected. He said that all the research suggested that children, young people, parents and employers wanted "different types of products" from the education system. Employers across the world wanted people who were adaptive and quick to learn, rather than those with the traditional 10 GCSEs, he added. "What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time. "We have taken the best and most innovative practice from around the world but we are one of the few areas to put it all together in a package across the local authority and our schools." He added that nobody knew what the next generation of technological advances would bring, but Knowsley was trying to ensure it had the flexibility in its learning centres to use it. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education The shape of schools to come? 19 Jan 07 | Education Schools building project defended 18 Jan 07 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6654935.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Council calls time on classrooms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Council calls time on classrooms There will be no formal timetables at the new learning centres A council is calling time on formal classes and rigid timetables amid plans to rebuild all 11 of its secondary schools as hi-tech learning centres. Merseyside's Knowsley Council is replacing 1950s-style secondary schools with centres where children follow programmes matching their interests. Pupils will be given their assignments in groups of 120 in the morning before dispersing to wi-fi zones to study. The council hopes the £150m rebuilding programme will boost attainment. Under the plans traditional classrooms and timetables will be replaced by flexible learning packages which pupils will follow both at the learning centres and from home. What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time It is part of the government's £45bn Building Schools for the Future programme through which every school in the country is supposed to be rebuilt by 2020. Once built in 2009, Knowsley's seven learning centres will remain open from 7am to 10pm and throughout the traditional holiday period. And the teachers working in the schools will take on roles as "facilitators" and "coaches", depending on negotiations with the unions. The centres will also host courses for adults to upgrade their skills and improve their education alongside pupils. The whole project will rely heavily on the latest computer technology likely to be provided by RM while Microsoft provides expert advice to the council. Knowsley's director of transformation within children's services, Nick Page, stressed there would be stringent financial penalties if the technology fell short of what was expected. He said that all the research suggested that children, young people, parents and employers wanted "different types of products" from the education system. Employers across the world wanted people who were adaptive and quick to learn, rather than those with the traditional 10 GCSEs, he added. "What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time. "We have taken the best and most innovative practice from around the world but we are one of the few areas to put it all together in a package across the local authority and our schools." He added that nobody knew what the next generation of technological advances would bring, but Knowsley was trying to ensure it had the flexibility in its learning centres to use it. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education The shape of schools to come? 19 Jan 07 | Education Schools building project defended 18 Jan 07 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Should Latin be compulsory in schools? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Should Latin be compulsory in schools? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Med diet 'cuts lung disease risk' US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New doubt cast on Woolmer murder New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:07 GMT 15:07 UK Brown pledges academy support Gordon Brown has promised that as leader he would continue the expansion of academies. Maths: who said it was difficult? Pupils 'are urged to drop maths' Extra support for dyslexic pupils A scheme to help pupils with dyslexia is launched in London, in an attempt to share best practice. Academy call for private schools More private schools are being urged to take part in the government's academy project. Johnson's toga history protest Teachers accused of GCSE cheat Council calls time on classrooms Blair applauds school rebuilding US teachers' mock gun attack Female professors in minority LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Mother wins dyslexia campaign Web tool allows anyone to be a computer programmer He pledged education, education, education. Did Blair deliver? University cuts carbon footprint making bio-diesel from oil Exam paper tags to beat cheats BBC jobs loss on suspended Jam Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Web safety warning for children City teachers could get more cash Schools for gifted expand Heads highlight building problems Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Heads highlight building problems Secrets of exam success revealed Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES Hands-on projects discover young people's news agenda ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 14:07 GMT 15:07 UK Brown pledges academy support Gordon Brown has promised that as leader he would continue the expansion of academies. Maths: who said it was difficult? Pupils 'are urged to drop maths' Extra support for dyslexic pupils A scheme to help pupils with dyslexia is launched in London, in an attempt to share best practice. Academy call for private schools More private schools are being urged to take part in the government's academy project. Johnson's toga history protest Teachers accused of GCSE cheat Council calls time on classrooms Blair applauds school rebuilding US teachers' mock gun attack Female professors in minority LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Mother wins dyslexia campaign Web tool allows anyone to be a computer programmer He pledged education, education, education. Did Blair deliver? University cuts carbon footprint making bio-diesel from oil Exam paper tags to beat cheats BBC jobs loss on suspended Jam Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Web safety warning for children City teachers could get more cash Schools for gifted expand Heads highlight building problems Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Heads highlight building problems Secrets of exam success revealed Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES Hands-on projects discover young people's news agenda ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6657331.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Extra support for dyslexic pupils Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 11:42 GMT 12:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Extra support for dyslexic pupils The project is supported by the dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People A scheme to support pupils with dyslexia has been launched in London. The project will work with schools and local authorities with a strong track record in helping dyslexic children and share their methods with other schools. The scheme, called No to Failure, will offer specialist training for teachers and create links with charities and businesses to improve education. The government has allocated £900,000 towards the project and this sum will be matched by charitable donations. No to Failure will develop an initial pilot project in the London Borough of Southwark, as a model for extension to other local authorities over the coming months. The project is part of a programme the government is running with the Training and Development Agency for Schools to improve systematically the training of trainee and serving teachers in special educational needs. Launching the initiative at Lyndhurst School in Southwark, Schools Minister Lord Adonis said it would help ensure the needs of children with dyslexia were recognised early and acted upon. "This project, bringing government and charities together, will increase awareness of the benefits to be gained from improved access to specialist support," he said. Founder of a participating dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People, Kate Griggs, said: "Lyndhurst School is a shining example of how even severely dyslexic children can be supported and succeed in mainstream school. "Success for most dyslexics isn't about specialist schools, it's about getting specialist teachers in mainstream schools so they can identify and help these children early." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How the test might work Q & A: Dyslexia 02 Sep 05 | Education Early warning test for dyslexia 22 Jan 07 | Education Scientists discover dyslexia gene 28 Oct 05 | Health Row erupts over dyslexia 'denial' 02 Sep 05 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6657331.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Extra support for dyslexic pupils Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 11:42 GMT 12:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Extra support for dyslexic pupils The project is supported by the dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People A scheme to support pupils with dyslexia has been launched in London. The project will work with schools and local authorities with a strong track record in helping dyslexic children and share their methods with other schools. The scheme, called No to Failure, will offer specialist training for teachers and create links with charities and businesses to improve education. The government has allocated £900,000 towards the project and this sum will be matched by charitable donations. No to Failure will develop an initial pilot project in the London Borough of Southwark, as a model for extension to other local authorities over the coming months. The project is part of a programme the government is running with the Training and Development Agency for Schools to improve systematically the training of trainee and serving teachers in special educational needs. Launching the initiative at Lyndhurst School in Southwark, Schools Minister Lord Adonis said it would help ensure the needs of children with dyslexia were recognised early and acted upon. "This project, bringing government and charities together, will increase awareness of the benefits to be gained from improved access to specialist support," he said. Founder of a participating dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People, Kate Griggs, said: "Lyndhurst School is a shining example of how even severely dyslexic children can be supported and succeed in mainstream school. "Success for most dyslexics isn't about specialist schools, it's about getting specialist teachers in mainstream schools so they can identify and help these children early." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How the test might work Q & A: Dyslexia 02 Sep 05 | Education Early warning test for dyslexia 22 Jan 07 | Education Scientists discover dyslexia gene 28 Oct 05 | Health Row erupts over dyslexia 'denial' 02 Sep 05 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6647783.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads highlight building problems Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:24 GMT 00:24 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads highlight building problems Teachers said there were delays in repairs and maintenance Billions of pounds could be jeopardised if ongoing problems with some school building projects are not addressed, school leaders have warned. Teachers say many of the firms which build and maintain schools provide a poor service or have put up their fees. They also claim that time that should be spent on school work is being wasted resolving contractual issues. The Department for Education and Skills said contractors which fell short were obliged to pay heavy penalties. Time and energy that should be spent on students' education are having to be expended on continuing negotiations with contractors Schools built under the private finance initiative (PFI) are designed, constructed and maintained by private sector firms which then lease them back to a public authority. But the head teacher often has to deal with day-to-day contractual issues. The government admits there were teething problems with early PFI school building projects but claims the lessons have been learnt. However, the Association of School and College Leaders says "legacy issues" remain unresolved in many places. It argues that if the contractual issues which are so burdensome to school leaders are not dealt with they will compromise the education of a generation of students to come. ASCL president Malcolm Trobe said the idea that contracting out the school building process would free up head teachers to concentrate on education has turned out to be a myth. He said: "These PFI legacy issues are proving to be a considerable burden to school leaders, very time consuming and energy sapping. "Time and energy that should be spent on students' education are having to be expended on continuing negotiations with contractors to resolve minor issues. "Unacceptably high management fees for what is often mediocre service are taking away money that should be spent on improving resources for learning. "In many cases, PFI contractors have shown that they are more interested in their profit margins than the welfare of students and the community." Mr Trobe said: "There are issues that need to be resolved at a national level rather than be left to each school or local authority to attempt to solve." In a report to the DfES, the association cites a litany of problems its members are having to deal with in PFI schools. These include long delays in taking action on basic maintenance and repairs, normal wear and tear being charged to the school and shoddy fittings that were not fit for purpose when they were installed. Many also claim access to school buildings out-of-hours can be too difficult or too expensive to obtain. A spokesman for the DfES said PFI contractors were expected to deliver excellent service to schools and value for money for the taxpayer. "That's why heavy financial penalties are negotiated into contracts with local authorities, if contractors fall short. "Those who are involved in negotiating and managing contracts are supported at every step of the way. "No change of contractor can be made unless the local authority agrees and prices cannot be changed arbitrarily." The DfES pledged to work with all the parties involved in such projects and to give direct support to the local councils drawing and handling contracts. It added that a new central helpdesk had been set up to assist with resolving any problems between local authorities and providers. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education Delays hit school building scheme 15 Dec 06 | Education Many new-built schools 'mediocre' 03 Jul 06 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6647783.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads highlight building problems Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:24 GMT 00:24 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads highlight building problems Teachers said there were delays in repairs and maintenance Billions of pounds could be jeopardised if ongoing problems with some school building projects are not addressed, school leaders have warned. Teachers say many of the firms which build and maintain schools provide a poor service or have put up their fees. They also claim that time that should be spent on school work is being wasted resolving contractual issues. The Department for Education and Skills said contractors which fell short were obliged to pay heavy penalties. Time and energy that should be spent on students' education are having to be expended on continuing negotiations with contractors Schools built under the private finance initiative (PFI) are designed, constructed and maintained by private sector firms which then lease them back to a public authority. But the head teacher often has to deal with day-to-day contractual issues. The government admits there were teething problems with early PFI school building projects but claims the lessons have been learnt. However, the Association of School and College Leaders says "legacy issues" remain unresolved in many places. It argues that if the contractual issues which are so burdensome to school leaders are not dealt with they will compromise the education of a generation of students to come. ASCL president Malcolm Trobe said the idea that contracting out the school building process would free up head teachers to concentrate on education has turned out to be a myth. He said: "These PFI legacy issues are proving to be a considerable burden to school leaders, very time consuming and energy sapping. "Time and energy that should be spent on students' education are having to be expended on continuing negotiations with contractors to resolve minor issues. "Unacceptably high management fees for what is often mediocre service are taking away money that should be spent on improving resources for learning. "In many cases, PFI contractors have shown that they are more interested in their profit margins than the welfare of students and the community." Mr Trobe said: "There are issues that need to be resolved at a national level rather than be left to each school or local authority to attempt to solve." In a report to the DfES, the association cites a litany of problems its members are having to deal with in PFI schools. These include long delays in taking action on basic maintenance and repairs, normal wear and tear being charged to the school and shoddy fittings that were not fit for purpose when they were installed. Many also claim access to school buildings out-of-hours can be too difficult or too expensive to obtain. A spokesman for the DfES said PFI contractors were expected to deliver excellent service to schools and value for money for the taxpayer. "That's why heavy financial penalties are negotiated into contracts with local authorities, if contractors fall short. "Those who are involved in negotiating and managing contracts are supported at every step of the way. "No change of contractor can be made unless the local authority agrees and prices cannot be changed arbitrarily." The DfES pledged to work with all the parties involved in such projects and to give direct support to the local councils drawing and handling contracts. It added that a new central helpdesk had been set up to assist with resolving any problems between local authorities and providers. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education Delays hit school building scheme 15 Dec 06 | Education Many new-built schools 'mediocre' 03 Jul 06 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Get slim on the office treadmill Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Happiness wins science book prize Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies New Media Home: The Conclusion Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6570171.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Reviving a 'dead' language Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 25 April 2007, 09:07 GMT 10:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Reviving a 'dead' language Lorna encourages the children to express themselves in Latin The children are writing postcards about their favourite things - holidays, sport, food. But however many times they jot down "wish you were here", their intended recipients never will be. They have been dead for about 2,000 years. It sounds macabre, but a primary school in Hackney, east London, is actually trying to keep something alive. Latin, the ancient language which has long been in decline in state schools, is being taught in the area for the first time that anyone can remember. The postcards are written as if they are for children living in ancient Rome. Class organiser Lorna Robinson has even devised special words - such as "pedifolle" for football and "campus lusorius" for playground - for nine and 10-year-olds at Benthal Primary School to use. The aim is to introduce the ethnically mixed pupils, who speak up to 30 different languages at home, to Latin, which underpins much English vocabulary. Lorna, who started the classes last September, said: "We want to see if the Latin improves their literacy results. It's a very specific aim. "We also want to promote interest and opportunities to learn Latin in state schools. "It will help the children think about language and how it is constructed at an early age. They all ask questions and are making good progress. "Often, because they are so young, they are able to remember more words than I can." Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well The children have taken part in activities as modern as bingo and making up road signs. Judging by the rapid raising of hands every time Lorna asks a question, they enjoy the lessons. Johanna, nine, said: "I think it's really interesting. We've done a lot of fun stuff and it helps me with some words when we're doing literacy. "My mum is Brazilian and the Latin helps me with my Portuguese." Humayra, 10, added: "I find it fun and it's different from anything else I've done. I can speak Bengali but it's not very similar to Latin, so it's hard to learn. "I think Latin helps me most with writing in literacy lessons." Lorna, who has a PhD from Oxford University, in which she compared the works of Roman poet Ovid with the Latin American magical realist movement, has made it her mission to promote the classics in state schools. Last year she left a teaching job at Wellington College, a public school in Berkshire which charges fees of up to £24,000 a year. The change of scene is striking. Lorna, who is being funded by Cambridge University, said: "Some of the children have a lot of behaviour problems. It's challenging but interesting as well. Modern dramas are reviving interest in Latin and ancient Roman history "Overall, the children here are really engaged and work very hard. "Sometimes people have a defeatist attitude to schools in inner-city areas and they criticise new initiatives, but this has been eye-opening. "It's been working well but it's not sustainable unless the government steps in and expands the plans." Lorna added: "I've tried to make the Latin lessons very activity-based. "It's sort of like being a detective. We start off using words on cards and get them to work out the links with English words. "Then we do things like play bingo to teach them numbers. Recently we taught the kids imperatives in Latin by designing road signs. "One of the good things about Latin not being a spoken language is it's more theoretical, meaning kids can look at words and work out what they mean." The pupils have recently taken part in a drama workshop in Latin, in which former Royal Shakespeare Company actors re-enacted historical stories and myths. Five primary schools in Hackney will be offering Latin from September, while Lorna is already teaching in Kilburn, in north-west London. Boris Johnson, the shadow higher education minister who has presented television programmes on the ancient world, is an enthusiastic supporter of the project. Performances in English tests over the next few years will show whether the project is having a concrete effect, but Benthal's young head teacher Tim Hunter-Whitehouse is already full of praise for the effect Latin has had. He said: "It's given the children something new and interesting. It gives them a historical basis of language. "It could be seen as a slightly dead subject but it has many uses, especially using terms in subjects like maths and science. "It's a taster for the children. The curriculum is busy but you have got to be as creative as you can and create as broad a range of experiences as possible." Dr Robinson is also editing a Latin and Greek magazine called Iris, which is being distributed free to state schools by Cambridge University. Latin certainly needs a boost. GCSE entries fell from 16,000 in 1988 to 9,900 in 2004. Asked whether any of Benthal Primary School's pupils will one day follow her and study classics at university, Lorna replied: "That's not the aim of the course. But it would be nice." This summer, though, could present her sternest challenge. Lorna has agreed to go to the US to teach Latin in five schools in the Bronx, one of the toughest areas of New York. She said: "I'm very excited about it but also apprehensive. I've never been to America before, so I'm walking into the unknown. But I suppose it's not the first time." E-mail this to a friend Should Latin be compulsory in schools? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion Latinist laments 'dying language' 28 Jan 07 | Europe Anger as exam board drops classics 11 Jun 04 | Education Academic recreates naked Olympics 09 Jul 04 | Education Cambridge School Classics Project The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6511361.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | How to get pupils learning again Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 24 April 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK E-mail this to a friend How to get pupils learning again BBC News education reporter Disengaged and bored students often end up truanting It is the holy grail for any conscientious teacher - how to get the most disengaged of pupils to re-engage in learning. In the past the answer was to mould the pupil to the school - and if they wouldn't bend, throw them out. But as more and more teachers commit to personalised learning, increasingly it is the school that is doing the changing. Bedminster Down Secondary School head teacher Marius Frank has had a lot of experience tackling disengagement at his inner city school in Bristol. Three-quarters of his pupils are in the bottom 1% for achievement. Many of them will spend two years doing GCSEs and come out with nothing, he says. One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother Head teacher, Bedminster Down Secondary School "There's not a lot of value put on education around here - we struggle with English as a first language. "In communities like ours, although people work hard, the majority of adults have got to their adult working life not needing skills or education, as such. "They might say to their kids, 'Why are you doing your homework? You don't do that here - you do that at school'. "Part of what we have to do is to say that the present and the past is no longer the future." Tackling this aversion to education "head on" is not necessarily the right way to proceed, he says. "If we make it a class battle, it's not going to work. "So we have responded by getting the school to orientate around how pupils develop skills rather than how much knowledge they accumulate." The school now offers a different sort of qualification, alongside GCSEs, which is based on challenging pupils to complete tasks demonstrating these skills. The Certificate of Personal Effectiveness, or Cope, is a GCSE equivalent and requires the student to complete 12 challenges for which they get credits. These come under headings like improving performance, problem solving and working with others. In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books "It gives you a lead in, a buy-in to get through to that individual," he says. And more often than not, having achieved something with Cope, pupils then go on to tackle more traditional qualifications like GCSEs and even A-levels, he says. In the meantime they get a GCSE-equivalent for the skills they actually want to have. Mr Frank says that since offering the qualification, which he calls an NVQ in attitude, his school has seen a 5% improvement in its results. Another advantage is that because of its community focus, Cope allows pupils to get "Brownie points" for things they are already doing but not being recognised for. Mr Frank said: "One of the most disengaged kids that we had, we discovered, was a primary carer for a grandmother. "We used the Cope programme to re-engage them. "Because they are getting credit for the things they can do, they soon get credit for the things they thought they couldn't do. "We simply break it down and say, 'how are you doing that?' and suddenly that person's self-esteem rockets." Maggie Walker of educational charity Asdan, which designed the qualification, says boosting a child's confidence is key to breaking the cycle of disengagement. She says a lot of pupils who become disengaged lack encouragement from home. "In a typical middle class home people are given pats on the back, they're given books. "There was an area where I worked where they had very few books - people had maybe 10 books in the home. "But this qualification turns young people from those who say 'I can't' into those who say 'I can'." Director of the National Black Boys Can Association, Dr Cheron Byfield, agrees that boosting confidence is one of the important factors in getting youngsters interested in education again. Her organisation exists to raise the achievement and aspiration of all black boys in the UK - some of whom have fallen behind their white peers educationally. "If you keep on telling someone they can't achieve, well eventually they end up believing that," she says. "We say, 'look at what you can do, look at your true potential and be who you aim to be'." Children who disengage often end up getting in trouble with the police But it is not all about boosting confidence, says Dr Byfield. Her organisation takes a holistic, four-pronged approach to raising achievement and aspiration. This consists of empowering the boys themselves, empowering their parents, linking in and working with mainstream education and working with the community - especially by highlighting the achievements of positive black role models. Unfortunately, she says, there is no one-size-fits-all approach that works with every boy. "We have been amazed at how different children are. "Some of the boys we have been working with now for years, and it's taken a good while before we have made any real progress. "Others only needed to go on a one-day conference to come back really inspired. One day and that was it! "A parent of one called me and said, 'My son has not been the same since he went on the programme. He has a completely different mind-set.' "The thing to remember is we are dealing with real people and they are all different," says Dr Byfield. And it is these differences that the educators are trying to tackle with personalised learning. What is not yet clear is whether teachers are equipped with the skills and the physical resources to deliver it. E-mail this to a friend National Black Boys Can Association Bedminster Down Secondary School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653705.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Male professors outnumber women Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 12:53 GMT 13:53 UK E-mail this to a friend Male professors outnumber women More females than males are applying for university Women are still hugely outnumbered by men in senior academic posts in the UK's universities, figures reveal. There are almost six full-time male professors for every female professor, data on 2005-06 from the Higher Education Statistics Agency shows. And of the senior lecturers and researchers working in universities, less than a third (30.8%) were women. The University and College Union said institutions must act to ensure women are not stopped from reaching the top. Overall the proportion of full-time female academic staff in UK universities rose slightly from 36.1% in 2004-05 to 36.6% in 2005-06. Women want equality now, rather than to wait until their daughters and granddaughters start work UCU joint general secretary Full-time female academics accounted for 41.8% of staff members at lecturer, researcher and other grades. Although there had been a small increase (0.7%) in the proportion of females at professor and also at senior lecturer/researcher level (0.8%) since 2004-05, at other grades the gender split remained almost static. And unusually, the number of women academics generally working part-time was only slightly higher than the number of men doing so, with around 3,090 (or about 3%) more women than men working part-time out of a total of 53,465. But the gender gap emerges almost as strikingly at the most senior level among part-time academics, with nearly four-and-a-half times as many part-time male professors as female professors. However for the past decade, more women than men have been attending university as students. Redressing gender imbalances in academia, such as at senior level, is a long-term goal for the sector According to the latest figures, some 56% of those applying to university this year are women. Joint general secretary of the University and College Union, Sally Hunt, said with ever-increasing numbers of women in the profession, there was no reason why more should not be in the top jobs. Fair, open and transparent recruitment and promotion procedures were in everyone's interest, she said. "What is equally important for the future is that institutions act to ensure equality of opportunity at every point so that women who are at the start of their academic career will face fewer obstacles in getting to the top than those who came before them. "Women want equality now, rather than to wait until their daughters and granddaughters start work." A spokesman for Universities UK, the vice-chancellors' body, said: "Universities are committed to providing equal opportunity in academia, which is why Universities UK established and continues to support the Equality Challenge Unit in taking such issues forward. "The higher education sector has made substantial progress in recent years, but we are not complacent and recognise that there is always more that can be done. "Redressing gender imbalances in academia, such as at senior level, is a long-term goal for the sector." The Equality Challenge Unit said the fact there had been only small increases in female academic staff at a senior level was "very worrying". Policy adviser Saheema Rawat said the unit was committed to addressing such issues, for example by looking at systems that promoted flexible working. Chief executive of University and Colleges Employers Association Jocelyn Prudence said: "Good progress is being made across the sector with an increase in the proportion of females in senior academic roles and this is set to continue, but we recognise there is still more to do. "The proportion of female professors has more than doubled in the last 10 years with improved promotion opportunities." The HESA figures also showed that 10.7% of academic staff who chose to state their ethnic background were from an ethnic minority. Overall the number of academics employed in UK universities rose 4,220 to 164,875 in 2005-06. Just over two thirds of these (67.6%) of these were employed full-time. E-mail this to a friend Women academics narrow gender gap 24 Jun 04 | Education Students question degree gender gap 12 Feb 03 | Education Student gender gap is even wider 15 Feb 07 | Education Higher Education Statistics Agency University and College Union Department for Education and Skills Universities and Colleges Employers Association The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6656675.stm	BBC NEWS | England | London | MP dons toga for history protest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 08:00 GMT 09:00 UK E-mail this to a friend MP dons toga for history protest MP Boris Johnson said the subject was hugely important Conservative MP Boris Johnson donned a toga and joined students outside the House of Commons in protest at plans to scrap the last ancient history A-level. Girls from Godolphin and Latymer School in Hammersmith, west London, handed the shadow education minister a petition signed by 4,000 people. He is backing calls to halt plans by the OCR exam board to end the subject. Urging the government to step in Mr Johnson said the course was of huge importance to Britain and its culture. Speaking outside parliament on Monday the Henley-on-Thames MP said it was important not to lose a subject which could provide a route to university for many people. "I think you're getting rid of another potential route. Why not leave things as they are? It's a wonderful subject, it's well taught, let's encourage more people to do it," he said. Natasha Hausdorff, 17, one of the sixth-form students leading the campaign, said she was fighting to preserve a subject she loved and which could teach youngsters about democracy, religious confrontations and east-west relations. In March OCR said it planned to scrap ancient history saying revised A-level courses would offer students a better range of qualifications. Elements of the old ancient history exam would be taken into a new classical civilisation A-level which will be taught from September 2008. But some critics argued the new course would not examine ancient history properly. E-mail this to a friend Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Entertainment, games and chat on the BBC's Oxfordshire website Fees for A-levels may be capped 13 Apr 07 | Education Godolphin and Latymer School The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Three held over 7/7 attacks freed School fights to evict paedophile Arrests over boy's bedroom murder MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6657331.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Extra support for dyslexic pupils Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 11:42 GMT 12:42 UK E-mail this to a friend Extra support for dyslexic pupils The project is supported by the dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People A scheme to support pupils with dyslexia has been launched in London. The project will work with schools and local authorities with a strong track record in helping dyslexic children and share their methods with other schools. The scheme, called No to Failure, will offer specialist training for teachers and create links with charities and businesses to improve education. The government has allocated £900,000 towards the project and this sum will be matched by charitable donations. No to Failure will develop an initial pilot project in the London Borough of Southwark, as a model for extension to other local authorities over the coming months. The project is part of a programme the government is running with the Training and Development Agency for Schools to improve systematically the training of trainee and serving teachers in special educational needs. Launching the initiative at Lyndhurst School in Southwark, Schools Minister Lord Adonis said it would help ensure the needs of children with dyslexia were recognised early and acted upon. "This project, bringing government and charities together, will increase awareness of the benefits to be gained from improved access to specialist support," he said. Founder of a participating dyslexia charity Xtraordinary People, Kate Griggs, said: "Lyndhurst School is a shining example of how even severely dyslexic children can be supported and succeed in mainstream school. "Success for most dyslexics isn't about specialist schools, it's about getting specialist teachers in mainstream schools so they can identify and help these children early." E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS How the test might work Q & A: Dyslexia 02 Sep 05 | Education Early warning test for dyslexia 22 Jan 07 | Education Scientists discover dyslexia gene 28 Oct 05 | Health Row erupts over dyslexia 'denial' 02 Sep 05 | Education Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653533.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 11:28 GMT 12:28 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Teachers are worried about the fairness of the music exam Teachers are accusing each other of "blatant cheating" in a forthcoming music GCSE exam. Schools are sent music CDs which are used to test pupils' listening skills. These discs can be checked several days in advance to make sure they work - but teachers are claiming some schools may use this to gain an unfair advantage. Exam board Edexcel says it is fair that teachers can check that the CD is functioning correctly - but that this is on a basis of professional trust. But there have been concerns that teachers have already been involved in online discussions about the content of the CDs to be used in this summer's exam. Music teacher Robert Steadman says that the listening part of the exam has been "compromised" and should be replaced. "This is an outrage. Surely the music teacher should not be the person checking the CD and nobody should be discussing the contents of the CD until after the exam," said Mr Steadman, who contacted the BBC News website with his concerns. 'Playing field not level' An angry exchange over the fairness of the procedure broke out on a teachers' forum on the website of the Times Educational Supplement. It revolves around a CD of music extracts supplied by the exam board for use in the listening paper for GCSE music. There are claims that teachers who check the CD in advance will be able to target their pupils' last-minute revision accordingly - using this as a way of leaking the contents. "Some teachers know what music is going to be on next week's exam? And by that rationale, they know what's not?" wrote one. "So someone knows that for example, there isn't a piece of gamelan on the exam. Are they still going to revise gamelan with their classes?" Others defended the pre-listening - with one saying "there is a world of difference between checking to see if a CD actually works and working out the questions". But this drew an incredulous response from another contributor: "I am appalled that you were even give the CD, your exams officer is a numpty! and you are blatantly cheating... the playing field is certainly not level." Another challenged the plausibility of allowing teachers to know what was in an exam - and for that not to influence their remaining teaching time. "I do not believe that anyone who has heard the CD for a listening exam will not bias their lessons during the coming week when pupils are still getting confused about things that they [the teacher] knows will not appear on the paper." A number of those contributing to this debate said they would contact exam board Edexcel to warn them of their worries about the fairness of this process. Edexcel says that it sends discs to exam centres in advance so that pupils are not disadvantaged by a faulty CD - allowing time for schools to get a replacement if necessary. And it says that its procedures are designed to ensure that the exam is "secure and fair for all candidates". The recordings on the CD should be checked "under strict security", a spokesperson said. "Any information gleaned from checking the recordings must remain confidential until the examination has been sat by the candidates." The Examination Officers' Association says that subject teachers are allowed to check discs by some exam boards - and that they are "trusted to get on with it in a professional way". Discs and tapes are sent out for exams in other subjects - such as modern languages - with an exams officer pointing out in an e-mail to the BBC News website that a school could receive 80 such recordings for the exam season. Not all exam boards allow teachers to check music discs beforehand. AQA says that it "specifically instructs teachers not to open the packages containing the CDs before our exams". A spokesperson for the AQA exam board said problems with CDs were "highly unlikely" and that as a back-up, two CDs are sent to exam centres. If there was a further failure, another disc would be sent by courier and the start of the exam could be delayed. Send us your comments on this story, using the form below. This is a definite breach of security. The materials received should be dealt with by an Examinations Officer. Teachers of the subjects should not be allowed access to the material until the day of the exam; even then this should again be dealt with by the Exams Officer. Security should be paramount when it comes to examinations. To then discuss their findings online is an absolute disgrace. From the Examination Officers' Association: Exam officers try their best to deliver what the exam system demands following the rules and regulations laid down by Awarding Bodies, who are over seen by QCA. The procedure in the past regarding this issue is for exam officers to pass any discs over to a subject staff to check to see if they work. You can not have students sitting there ready to go on the day of the exam with the prospect of faulty discs. Unlike papers they cannot be emailed or faxed on the day if there was a problem. A specific time should be agreed to do the checks and to get discs back ready for the exam period. Trust and professional respect for fellow staff in important here. If centres had faultless discs then, like papers, this would not be an issue! The reality is things do go wrong for no specific reason and therefore people doing the job have to be trusted to get on with it in a professional way. My daughter takes her exam tomorrow so I hope her music teacher hasn't cheated! Agree there should be better methods - CDs have been around for a while so presumably the cheating option has been too! It should be straightforward - the examinations officer for each school should check the CD. The subject teachers should be told only that the CD is functioning properly or not. The content should not, I feel, be revealed in advance. Exam office staff should check the CD - obviously. Anything else should be dealt with as malpractice... This sort of thing needs to be sorted properly before there are even more concerns about 'easier exams'. Jerry Cullum, Alton, Hampshire The person who checks the CD should be unconnected with the school's music department, eg the Exam Officer or head teacher. The situation would then be parallel to other examination papers, which are kept secure until needed. As an Exams Officer, I have not got time to check every cassette or CD that arrives (about 80 in total). It is not just music - all language exam tapes/CDs need to be checked for GCSE and AS/A levels I have to rely on my colleagues' integrity, which, fortunately, I can. Can't Edexcel test the CDs before they send them out? I agree with Jan... Surely it should be the sole responsibility of Edexcel to check the disks are working before sending them out? The only thing the schools should test is whether their individual CD players and sound systems work. If the teachers themselves get a chance to listen to the music, even if it is just testing, it would be impossible for what they hear not to influence their teaching - either consciously or sub-consciously. Why are these exams still utilising old fashioned methods of delivery? If these exams were delivered through a secure server there would be no need for disks or testing and would eliminate the possibility of cheating being inferred. With the advent of MP3/ iPods and so on, why are exam boards even bothering with CDs at all? The examination material should be streamed over a broadband internet connection established from each participating exam centre at the given time. The broadband link could be tested in advance without recourse to accessing the exam material until the appointed time. We ran a French A-level aural (listening) exam using computer sound files rather than the issued tapes, after discussion with our exam board the transfer was made by an IT technician under the supervision of a French-speaking ICT teacher... the languages department never came near it! Kat and Andrew are right to mention modern delivery methods, but maybe haven't seen the standard of the IT facilities at some of the schools I've worked. Relying on a broadband connection to stream live music exam pieces is about as realistic as taking English comprehension exams set in alphabetti spaghetti. When I took A level sciences in the 1980s we would always have a 'practice' practical exam a few weeks before the A level that turned out to be exactly the same as the real practical exam. So this sort of thing has been going on for a long time. This is the tip of the iceberg teachers and school cheat and twist the system in a lot of ways in my experience. We were given the entire list of actual questions, and answers to memorise, for our German oral exam some 20 years ago. There will always be poor teachers that feel the need to cheat on behalf of their students, in order to cover the fact they are failing at their job. The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats 10 May 07 | Education Mobiles fuel exam cheating rise 26 Mar 06 | Education Move to end more GCSE coursework 06 Oct 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6653167.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Americas | US teachers stage mock gun attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 09:39 GMT 10:39 UK E-mail this to a friend US teachers stage mock gun attack The "prank" comes in the wake of the Virginia Tech massacre Teachers at a US school have been criticised after staging a fake gun attack during a class trip, telling children it was not a drill. Many of the 69 pupils, aged about 11, were reduced to tears when they were told to hide under tables and keep quiet as a gunman was on the loose. Parents of the children, who attended Scales Elementary school in Tennessee, were said to be furious at the "stunt". The school spoke of "poor judgment" but did not comment on disciplinary action. Students on the week-long school field trip had been told to expect a "campfire prank" but the mock attack went too far, local education officials said in a statement on Sunday. The incident lasted about five minutes and was intended to be a learning experience, said the school's assistant principal, Don Bartch, who led the trip. "We got together and discussed what we would have done in a real situation," AP news agency quoted Mr Bartch as saying. One pupil said the lights went out and about 20 children started to cry. A teacher, wearing a hooded jumper, also pulled at a locked door. "I was like 'Oh My God.' At first I thought I was going to die. We flipped out," said 11-year-old pupil Shay Naylor. The move angered many of the children's parents - especially in the light of last month's massacre at Virginia Tech university, where a student killed 32 people and himself. "The children were in that room in the dark, begging for their lives, because they thought there was someone with a gun after them," said Brandy Cole, whose son was on the trip. The director of schools is to decide what action - if any - should be taken against the staff involved. E-mail this to a friend US university shooting kills 33 17 Apr 07 | Americas World Bank hears Wolfowitz case Brazilian guilty of US nun murder US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6593089.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Secrets of exam success revealed Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 26 April 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Secrets of exam success revealed Student exams doctor, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority George Turnbull says blot out the many potential distractions Put "study skills" into one particular search engine and you get almost 27m responses offering help. Some may help you but how do you know which ones? So that despite the technology and vast oceans of information on tap, more time can be spent surfing than helping. Don't make that mistake. Understanding these limitations - and knowing that grades depend on student effort and planning - is more important and a good starting point for success in exams. And with only weeks left now until the start of the exam season, now is the time to stop mucking about and get on with it. Regardless of your state of readiness there are certain things which can be done to improve your results. So read on. Swots too. And parents can play their part - by being seen and not heard. Tea, sympathy and understanding are the best they can offer. There is little else they can do and pointless turf wars may therefore be avoided. So read on if you are a student with exams to sit, as you are the one that can make a difference. But getting started is often the most difficult bit. Three hours in your bedroom - with good intentions - but playing with the cat, texting friends and looking out of the window instead, is pointless. Go for 10 minutes only but work in that time and do nothing else. That's all it takes to get started. The moment of truth looms for a million students Have a 10-minute break and start again, gradually building up to 20 or 40- minute periods, whilst keeping the breaks at 10 minutes. Try it and see. You may even work for longer periods without a break. Each of us is different and if it works for you, then do it. So that when you are working, you work, and when relaxing, you relax. The two don't mix. Grab extra quality study time during the day by getting up earlier or shortening your lunch break. Thirty minutes each school day would give an extra two-and-a-half hours a week, which may allow you to have a night off. Recreation should be built into your schedule. Make sure you get some but don't let it take over. Know when and where your exams are. Do past exam papers for practice. Ask your teachers if you are stuck. Work with a friend, if you really do work and it helps. Do two or three subjects in an evening, starting with the one you hate and finishing with the one you enjoy. You may even get to like the hated subject as you work on it and overcome those initial difficulties. THE BIG DAY DAWNS: FOCUS Exam rooms and dentists' chairs share certain memories, but the former need not be painful, if approached in the right way. A leisurely breakfast and a walk to school would be a good start. Don't rush and don't be late. Avoid friends, they can be off-putting and may confuse your thoughts. Mobile phones should be left at home. You could be disqualified if you have one with you. Have a glucose sweet to help the energy go to your brain. Take six deep breaths to relax and ignore those around you. It's your exam that concerns you, not theirs. IN THE EXAM HALL - TECHNIQUE COUNTS Read through the questions, jotting down formulae and points to remember on the question paper. Choose your questions, starting with the ones you can do to build confidence. Don't spend too long on any one question and try to do the number required. If you run out of time with only 10 minutes left for a 30-minute question, then do it in outline only - stating the main points and facts, if an essay - and by jotting down formulae and how you would use them to reach a solution, if science or maths. More marks can be gained this way with limited time available. Don't leave the exam room early and avoid friends discussing the paper afterwards. Nothing can be done to influence your marks on that paper now, but a lot can be done on the papers you have yet to sit. And that work should start straight away. Put your finished exam papers in a drawer and forget them, until your grandchildren ask to see them. They are of little value to you now, so don't waste that precious study time which you have available before the next exam, where you can make a difference. "Work", after all, comes after "success" - only in the dictionary. Remember that and do the best you can. I wish you well. George Turnbull is the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority's Exams Doctor and can be contacted at: Please note that the BBC is not responsible for the handling of such correspondence. E-mail this to a friend The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6486767.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Are school tests on their way out? Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Saturday, 24 March 2007, 00:41 GMT E-mail this to a friend Are school tests on their way out? Education correspondent, BBC News Something extraordinary seems to be happening to school tests in England. It could be the most radical change since the tests began in the early 1990s, when they were still called Sats. Yet this is a "softly, softly" revolution. The tests appear to be on their way out, at least in the form we know them today. But ministers do not want to give the impression they are easing up on accountability. Meanwhile others keep letting the cat out of the bag. This week it was the turn of the head of the examinations watchdog, Ken Boston. He suggested that national tests for all pupils could be phased out within three years and replaced by a test taken by just a small sample of pupils, sufficient to give a national picture of education standards. The government was not pleased. Ministers insisted that the national tests, taken by all pupils at the end of each key stage, were here to stay. Yet the logic of their own plans for a new kind of testing suggests there will be little need to maintain the current tests. As Sam Tyler, the fictional detective from BBC One's Life on Mars, tries to tell his unreformed 1970s police colleagues, the key to police investigations lies in the details. Well the same is true in investigating what is happening to school tests. This week, ministers announced a pilot scheme for the "Making Good Progress" project. It received little attention but this experiment has huge potential for changing not only school tests, but also the whole focus of how schools work and the chances of children who are falling behind. One reason it received little media attention was that it is complicated. But it is worth making the effort to see where it is heading. The scheme is all about: "testing pupils when they are ready" not just at seven, 11 and 14 Measuring each child's progress year-by-year Providing one-to-one tuition the moment a child falls behind Judging schools by the rate of progress of their pupils Paying schools a 10% premium if they improve their rate of progress. It would work like this. Instead of preparing pupils for the high stakes tests at the end of each key stage, teachers' focus would be on assessing when a child is able to move up one level in the national curriculum grades. When they think a child is ready they can put them in for a test that will be set and marked outside the school. They will not have to wait, as now, until pupils reach the end of a key stage at seven, 11 or 14. This will mean "several shorter, more focused, and more appropriate tests" for each child, rather than one big test at the end of the key stage. As the government's own consultation document says: "ultimately, these tests might replace end of key stage arrangements". As a benchmark, schools would be expected to move pupils up two "levels" at each key stage. The measure of each school's success would be the percentage of pupils who managed this rate of progress. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing The government believes so strongly that this is the way forward that it is offering a bonus payment to schools that improve their rate of progress in Maths and English in this way. It is also offering large sums of money to provide one-to-one tuition to those pupils who are falling behind the expected rate of progress. Middle class parents who are able to afford individual tuition from qualified teachers know this can be, by far, the most effective strategy for progress. Extending it to all of those at risk of falling behind could be one of the biggest educational leaps forward in decades. The scheme is to be piloted in 10 areas of the country over the next two years. If it is successful, it is hard to see why the government would want to keep the existing tests going as well. After all, the new approach would offer a clear guide to parents of both how their own child is progressing and also the effectiveness of different schools. There could even be league tables, if the government wanted, with schools ranked not by raw scores but by the percentage of pupils they have managed to progress through two national curriculum levels within each key stage. So why are ministers so insistent that the current tests will stay? The answer seems to be that they think they still need a measure of absolute achievement as a lever to force up national standards. Yet by insisting on having both systems of testing, they risk - once again - an over-load of testing. They could also be throwing away a chance to emphasise that the real measure of a school's teaching is the progress its pupils make, not the absolute level they reach. The new system will, on its own, require more tests than now, since children will be tested as they go through each national curriculum level not just each key stage. The extra tests could be justified in that they are shorter and targeted at pupils who are ready for them. The analogy is the musical instrument grades that pupils take as, and when, they are ready and which are set and marked by external teachers. Yet to add these new tests whilst keeping the existing tests at seven, 11, and 14 seems odd. Certainly, some experts believe it is unnecessary to keep the existing tests. Hence Mr Boston's argument that only a small sample of pupils need to be tested each year to provide a measure of absolute standards across the country. This one will be fascinating to watch. And as so often in educational change, it is the quiet revolutions that prove the biggest. We welcome your comments: The BBC may edit your comments and not all emails will be published. Your comments may be published on any BBC media worldwide. E-mail this to a friend RECENT COLUMNS AND RESPONSES How universities narrow schooling Your views on school sixth forms Are school tests on their way out? Your views on school tests Your views on university entrance Giving children the right start Your views on early years The problem with school 'choice' Your views on school choice Was Muslim guidance reasonable? Your views on Muslim guidance What price a university degree? Your views on university degrees School tests: who takes what 10 Nov 04 | Education National school tests 'could end' 21 Mar 07 | Education Change on way in tests and tables 04 Jan 07 | Education Department for Education and Skills Qualifications and Curriculum Authority The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6653969.stm	BBC NEWS | World | Asia-Pacific | Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 12:35 GMT 13:35 UK E-mail this to a friend Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Prime Minister John Howard has announced new powers for teachers An Australian teenager has won record damages after a court found that his school "grossly failed" in its duty to protect him from a school bully. Benjamin Cox, now 18, was regularly teased and beaten from the age of five by an older pupil, leaving him with psychiatric problems, a court heard. He was awarded A$213,000 (US$177,000, £90,000) plus a lifetime income that is likely to take his payout beyond $1m. Australia's PM has made plans to give teachers more power to tackle bullying. Mr Cox was bullied by a disturbed student at Woodberry Public School, leaving him with severe psychiatric problems and robbing him of his childhood, the New South Wales Supreme Court heard. His adolescence has been all but destroyed; his adulthood will not be any better The boy's mother, Angela Cox, told the court that her son was "petrified" of going to school and was unable to finish his education. She said Benjamin began to suffer headaches and nightmares, cried all the time and developed a stutter, adding that on one occasion the bully had tried to strangle her son. When she reported the abuse to the police and the school authorities, Mrs Cox said she was told by a department of education officer that "bullying builds character". Judge Carolyn Simpson accepted evidence that the bullying had led to the teenager's current psychiatric condition and ruled the school had "grossly failed" in its duty of care. She said: "His adolescence has been all but destroyed; his adulthood will not be any better. He will never know the satisfaction of employment. "He will suffer anxiety and depression, almost certainly, for the rest of his life. He has no friends and is unlikely to make any." E-mail this to a friend Violence mars Philippine count Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Russia and Burma in nuclear deal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6653729.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Blair applauds school rebuilding Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 13:20 GMT 14:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Blair applauds school rebuilding A government brochure showcases new school buildings The government says its programme of school refurbishment across England in the past 10 years is "truly historic". The Department for Education and Skills said there had been 1,106 new schools, 27,000 new or improved classrooms and 1,260 new children's centres. Prime Minister Tony Blair said good facilities were vital for a good education. On a farewell tour, he said 140 more schools would become trusts. School leaders have warned of ongoing problems with some building projects. The Association of School and College Leaders said in a report submitted to the education department (DfES) that unresolved "legacy issues" with Private Finance Initiative projects were sapping head teachers' time and energy. Mr Blair is visiting five education establishments in England, as he prepares to hand over the leadership of the Labour Party. As he set off on the tour, the Department for Education and Skills published a 64-page brochure about the school refurbishment record. It is claiming "seven classrooms built or upgraded every day for 10 years". In a foreword, Mr Blair said: "The programme of renewal is truly historic. It compares to the legacy of the Victorians and the post-war generation." The prime minister said the investment would continue so that "every child has the modern facilities they deserve by 2020". He has also announced that more than 140 primary, secondary and special schools have applied to become trusts in the last six months, alongside 69 full pathfinder schools piloting the new status. There are now plans "to work towards" having 300 schools converted or committed to trust status by the end of the year. The director of the British Council for School Environments, Ty Goddard, said the unprecedented investment was a huge opportunity to transform education and communities. But he added: "The procedure of securing money through capital investment programmes for schools is complicated and time consuming, and doesn't allow enough room for teachers and pupils to be properly involved in the design and build process." Shadow Education Secretary David Willetts said the truth was we had got fewer bigger schools, which was not what parents wanted. "For example, Labour boast that there are 96 new special schools, but the truth is that 146 have closed since 1997, with a net loss of 9,000 special school places. Blair's government is spinning to the end." The report from head teachers about concerns with building work struck a chord with Peter Harrison, chair of governors at The Hazeley School, Milton Keynes. It did open on time, but with a marquee providing the only large spaces and that only because the governors had foreseen the problem The first of three building phases was due to have been completed in July 2005, ready for that September. "It did open on time, but with a marquee providing the only large spaces and that only because the governors had foreseen the problem and insisted on it being available as a contingency," he said. In an online diary about the project, Hazeley head teacher Iain Denning at the time praised the dedication of his staff. "They are the ones who made BT connect the phones, got the IT system to work, called the power company to make sure we had power, worked all through the summer including weekends, moved furniture, carried boxes and sorted deliveries, made do with toilets with no power and no doors," he wrote. Mr Harrison said the builders were still there, even though the next phase was underway with different contractors. "Despite these problems and the time that professional school staff have to spend on managing the workarounds, Ofsted judged the school as "outstanding". "How much better could we be without having to constantly deal with building project problems?" Milton Keynes Council said in a statement: "We acknowledge that there are ongoing faults with the construction of some parts of the building and are working with the contractor to resolve them." E-mail this to a friend Heads highlight building problems 11 May 07 | Education 10 May 07 | Education Blair's classroom: the verdict 10 May 07 | Education British Council for School Environments Teachernet: Better Buildings [PDF] The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6654935.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Council calls time on classrooms Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 16:09 GMT 17:09 UK E-mail this to a friend Council calls time on classrooms There will be no formal timetables at the new learning centres A council is calling time on formal classes and rigid timetables amid plans to rebuild all 11 of its secondary schools as hi-tech learning centres. Merseyside's Knowsley Council is replacing 1950s-style secondary schools with centres where children follow programmes matching their interests. Pupils will be given their assignments in groups of 120 in the morning before dispersing to wi-fi zones to study. The council hopes the £150m rebuilding programme will boost attainment. Under the plans traditional classrooms and timetables will be replaced by flexible learning packages which pupils will follow both at the learning centres and from home. What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time It is part of the government's £45bn Building Schools for the Future programme through which every school in the country is supposed to be rebuilt by 2020. Once built in 2009, Knowsley's seven learning centres will remain open from 7am to 10pm and throughout the traditional holiday period. And the teachers working in the schools will take on roles as "facilitators" and "coaches", depending on negotiations with the unions. The centres will also host courses for adults to upgrade their skills and improve their education alongside pupils. The whole project will rely heavily on the latest computer technology likely to be provided by RM while Microsoft provides expert advice to the council. Knowsley's director of transformation within children's services, Nick Page, stressed there would be stringent financial penalties if the technology fell short of what was expected. He said that all the research suggested that children, young people, parents and employers wanted "different types of products" from the education system. Employers across the world wanted people who were adaptive and quick to learn, rather than those with the traditional 10 GCSEs, he added. "What we are trying to do is to make sure that the physical and learning structures are adaptive and relevant in 25 years' time. "We have taken the best and most innovative practice from around the world but we are one of the few areas to put it all together in a package across the local authority and our schools." He added that nobody knew what the next generation of technological advances would bring, but Knowsley was trying to ensure it had the flexibility in its learning centres to use it. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education The shape of schools to come? 19 Jan 07 | Education Schools building project defended 18 Jan 07 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6652585.stm	BBC NEWS | UK | Web safety warning for children Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 11:11 GMT 12:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Web safety warning for children The study says more needs to be done to protect young people More than half of children in the UK using the internet have had an "unwanted experience", a poll suggests. The NSPCC found 50.4% of 2,053 children had experienced problems such as bullying, being threatened or sexually harassed while online. It is concerned about the popularity of social networking sites such as Bebo or MySpace, which it says 52% of children aged 11-16 use once a day. NSPCC chief executive Dame Mary Marsh said: "Children face real threats." The survey indicated most young people logged onto such websites to make new friends and link up with people they already knew. But it also suggests that almost 60% of children used the websites to help combat loneliness, while 53% used them to share their problems. The findings were revealed as the charity launches this year's Don't Hide It campaign. The campaign aims to encourage children to speak out about all forms of abuse carried out on social networking websites. NSPCC director and chief executive Dame Mary Marsh said: "Children face real threats on the internet such as sexual grooming, cyber-bullying, exposure to violent, pornographic and other unsuitable material.. "Online social networking is part of millions of children's lives. "We must recognise and respond to this reality by helping them be safer online as well as helping them speak out about abuse at the same time." Children face real threats on the internet NSPCC director and chief executive Dame Mary Marsh Jim Gamble, Chief Executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, said an increasing number of children were putting their lives online. He said: "The NSPCC research matches our understanding of the problems that children and young people are vulnerable to online. "The rise in popularity of social networking sites, online gaming and chatting on instant messenger means that more young people than ever are sharing their personal experiences and details with strangers. "In the virtual world the need for cautiousness is often forgotten. The warning signs traditionally associated with strangers are lost amongst the possibility and excitement of new relationships." Previous research by the NSPCC has suggested 46% of children have given out personal details about themselves to people they have met online, such as photographs and phone numbers. The charity's website advises children to never reveal personal details, including their real names. Children worried about abuse can call ChildLine on 0800 1111 or visit www.donthideit.com for more information. E-mail this to a friend Websites urged to act on bullies 10 Apr 07 | Education Online child abuse complaints up 17 Apr 07 | Technology Teens arrested over web bullying 24 Feb 07 | South West Wales Police and Bebo in hatred talks 19 Dec 06 | Northern Ireland Social networks top Google search 18 Dec 06 | Technology Chatguide: Internet safety for children The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest Brown rival needs more supporters Three held over 7/7 attacks freed MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6655597.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Academy call for private schools Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Monday, 14 May 2007, 17:46 GMT 18:46 UK E-mail this to a friend Academy call for private schools Tony Blair travelled by helicopter on a farewell tour of schools Private schools are being urged to take part in the government's project to create 400 academies in England. As Tony Blair took part in a whirlwind visit to schools across the country, a new prospectus was published inviting participation in the academy scheme. Academies have private backers and are outside council control but conform to admissions rules and charge no fees. So far two private schools have "opted in" to the state system this way, and the prospectus urges others to do so. "High performing independent day schools are eligible to be considered for academy status where they can increase the supply of high quality school places serving diverse communities," it says. "Two such schools have now become academies - Belvedere School in Liverpool, and William Hulme Grammar School in Manchester. "The government would welcome other suitable independent schools wishing to join the programme." By autumn 2007, there will be 80 academies open - with another 50 expected to open by autumn 2008. This is in spite of opposition from education unions and a growing anti-academies campaign. A Commons motion put down by Labour MP Ken Purchase complains that the programme "is diverting tax payers' funds into the hands of super-rich sponsors, most of whom have no record of successful education management". Among the types of academy set out by the Department for Education and Skills prospectus are "academy federations", where stronger schools support weaker schools; private schools adopting academy status and "all-through academies", in which schools take pupils from the age of three upwards. Another element of Tony Blair's education legacy is the drive for schools to adopt "trust" status - in which schools and groups of schools have greater autonomy and can co-operate with outside organisations though there is no financial sponsorship. The government announced that 200 schools were seeking trust status - which it says is ahead of projections. The latest target is now to have 300 schools either converted or on track for trust status by the end of the year. The £10,000 offered to "early adopters" to support their application to become a trust has been extended until October. Universities and further education colleges are working with these trusts - and other organisations include Microsoft, the Co-operative group, Unilever and Barnardos. E-mail this to a friend PM Blair praises academy schools 14 May 07 | Northamptonshire City academies are future - Blair 30 Mar 07 | Politics Why the fuss over city academies? 17 Mar 05 | Education Specialist Schools and Academies Trust The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6643661.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Exam papers tagged to beat cheats Last year, Edexcel investigated 70 suspected security breaches Exam papers have been tagged and other new technology has been used for the first time to try to combat cheating. Exam board Edexcel is trying new ways to tighten security to deter cheats and detect fraudulent activity in its GCSE and A-level papers. A joint exams body already polices the system, with schools following strict procedures to maintain security. But papers do go missing. Some are stolen and sold. Others have been distributed on the internet. Teacher Farzana Akbar was given a three-month sentence and was banned from teaching for three months after admitting taking five GCSE maths papers from the Archbishop Lanfranc School in south London in 2002. And in 2004, police were called in to investigate the theft of maths and chemistry A-level papers, after questions were posted on a website ahead of the exam. The exam boards work together against cheats through the Joint Council for Qualifications, which sends out compliance officers to check on each school and college. There are strict guidelines governing how papers are stored in colleges or schools (in locked cupboards in a room locked by examinations officers) and how soon before an exam the packages can be undone. Contents of exam papers boxes can be checked easily Edexcel is trying out extra security methods at an unknown number of exam centres. Radio frequency tags such as those used on clothes and CDs in shops are being put on each bundle of exam papers. The tags will store data such as how many papers are in the bundle, where they came from and where they are going. They will not be tracked remotely, but instead will speed up checks carried out by compliance officers. Edexcel says it will be easier to spot if a package has been tampered with. The second use of new technology involves what is called micro-texting. A distinctive printing technique is used so that a paper which was photocopied could be easily identified. Certain tiny marks would not be seen on a photocopy and would only be visible under a magnifying glass on a genuine paper. The other side of the anti-cheating drive relates to the detection of students who might have cheated. Edexcel says it is using technology which will spot students who get unexpectedly high results if they have already taken modules for the same exam. This would prompt further investigation, it says. Last year Edexcel delivered 620,000 bags of papers to schools and colleges. It investigated 70 suspected security breaches, the majority of which involved packages that had been inadvertently opened at the wrong time. Edexcel's managing director, Jerry Jarvis said: "Incidents involving stolen papers are extremely rare, but the potential impact is massive. "The logistics of re-issuing an alternative paper to schools and colleges around the country and re-training markers on the new paper are complicated, costly and could ultimately be detrimental to candidates. "We're doing a major trial of new techniques and technologies with the aim of deterring potential thefts, enabling us to better identify the source of a lost or stolen paper, and reducing the threat of fake papers being sold to candidates." The exam board is also working on the development of lockable security boxes which could be unlocked by mobile phone communications or by secure password. Centres would be unable to access papers until a specified time before the exam. Edexcel says this technology would be aimed at centres with a known risk for insecure storage. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Exam papers being kept under lock and key Exam board tags exam papers 10 Jan 07 | Education 'No re-sits' after exam theft 24 Jun 04 | Education Exam papers changed after theft 28 May 04 | Education Joint Council for Qualifications The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6644187.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Summer school programme expanded Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Thursday, 10 May 2007, 23:03 GMT 00:03 UK E-mail this to a friend Summer school programme expanded Minister now urge schools to register their top 10% of pupils A programme offering extra summer study to gifted and talented children in England is being extended. A new network of university-led summer schools will begin to provide day and residential courses for an extra 22,000 very able children from this summer. Universities such as Cambridge, Durham, Bristol and York will work with schools to stretch the brightest pupils. One in five secondary schools - about 700 - does not take part in the scheme, despite five years of encouragement. Ministers now urge schools to identify their top 10% of high-achieving pupils. The new courses come on top of the 1,050 residential places already provided. Education minister Andrew Adonis said more had to be done to meet the needs of the very able. "Through the gifted and talented programme, children can already access more stretching lessons and opportunities," he said. "These new regional summer schools harness the expertise of our leading universities for the benefit of gifted and talented pupils in state schools. "Offering gifted and talented pupils a range of exciting out of school opportunities in their area will ensure that eligible children, no matter where they live or what their background, will receive extra support to meet their potential." Existing courses run by Warwick University cost up to £595 for a 14-day residential summer school and up to £40 for a one-day course, but financial help is available for those on lower incomes. The Department for Education and Skills could not say home much the new courses would cost students but said each hub would provide 10% of places for free. The first of the new courses will be available from this summer, when places for an extra 3,000 gifted and talented children will be on offer. During the following academic year, the number of places will rise to 22,000. Last year Lord Adonis wrote to all secondary schools in England urging them to register their highest achieving pupils with the National Academy of Gifted and Talented Pupils (Nagty) based at Warwick University. Nagty has been operating residential courses out of eight separate university campuses during the summer holidays. However, the contract to run this academy is coming to an end in September and a new tendering process is due to be held. It is understood that Warwick will not be bidding to run the new Learner Academy but that provision will continue in a different form. The DfES says it has been happy with the way it has been operating. E-mail this to a friend E-credits for more gifted pupils 28 Dec 06 | Education Gifted pupils 'still missing out' 11 Jul 06 | Education What is there for bright children? 11 Jul 06 | Education 'Talent search' plan under attack 27 Feb 06 | Education National Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6646007.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | City teachers could get more cash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 10:33 GMT 11:33 UK E-mail this to a friend City teachers could get more cash Mr Johnson wants to see more teachers from ethnic minorities "Golden hellos" should be offered to teachers who choose to work in tough inner city schools in England, Education Secretary Alan Johnson says. He has asked the TDA teacher training agency to "look creatively" at how it can attract high quality teachers to deprived areas to boost results there. Mr Johnson also wants to see more men working in primary schools and more trainees from the ethnic minorities. The TDA said it was looking at how it could address the issues raised. Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical A spokeswoman said "golden hellos" may be possible but were not currently under formal consideration. The comments came in Mr Johnson's letter to the head of England's Training and Development Agency for Schools, Graham Holley. He was setting out his priorities for how the TDA should spend the £770m in government funding for this year. He said: "Ensuring that schools serving areas of high disadvantage have good quality teachers will be critical if we are to make progress on narrowing the social class achievement gap. "I want the agency to look creatively at how best it can use the resources and levers at its disposal to make progress in this area. "This might include (but not be limited to) consideration of more targeted use of incentives such as golden hellos." Currently maths and science teachers are offered "golden hellos" worth £5,000 because of a national shortage. And schools and local authorities have greater flexibility to offer financial incentives to recruit and retain head teachers. The education secretary also called for improved gender balance in primary schools, where far more women are employed than men. He urged the TDA to increase its target for recruiting teachers from black and ethnic minority backgrounds to 12% from 10.5%. The government cash was also to be used for language teachers in primary schools and science and maths teachers in secondary schools. Mr Holley said: "In response to the Secretary of State's letter, the TDA has shifted its focus from increasing the quantity of teachers in England, to ensuring the whole school workforce has the skills and tools to deliver a curriculum that is relevant to pupils now and in the future. "The TDA aims to attract the right numbers of teachers and train them to high standards." He added that the grant ensured the TDA would be able to fully support the drive to modernise schools as well as allocate more money towards recruiting teachers in key areas and improving their training. Of the £770m, the TDA intends to spend £590m on initial teacher training and some £64m to support the development of extended services in schools. Some £32.5m would be used to help support staff improve their knowledge, skills and train in specialist areas. E-mail this to a friend Bigger golden hellos for teachers 09 Jun 05 | Education Head teacher shortage 'to worsen' 05 Sep 06 | Education Row over 'record' school head ads 31 Mar 06 | Education Head teacher shortage 'growing' 04 Sep 05 | Education Governors 'fail on recruitment' 06 Jan 06 | Education Teacher Training and Development Agency for Schools Department for Education and Skills The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6545481.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Teachers reflect on disciplining Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Wednesday, 11 April 2007, 16:20 GMT 17:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Teachers reflect on disciplining BBC news at the NASUWT conference in Belfast Teachers are being urged to take a "softly softly" approach Trying to control a disruptive class can be a bit like being a stand-up comedian in front of a heckling audience. Teachers have to be able to read the mood of the room, keep pupils entertained and interested, and crucially ensure they are the ones in control. Richard Hinton, a teacher for 36 years, says: "When you have to compete with the comedians in the class that spend all their time showing off to their friends by trying to get one over you - it can make life really difficult." Maintaining respect and control is key, says the teacher from Christchurch Middle School in Stone, Staffordshire. "If you have got a disruptive class then you have got to own them. You have got to be fair and you have got to be firm - and sometimes you have to be bloody-minded. "If you lose them you never get them back," he warns. He recalls the story of a teacher who was lauded for her skills by a senior colleague. She had taught in army school in a foreign war zone during the 1950s with incredible results. "But when she was brought back here to teach, she couldn't do it, the kids were all over her. "It turned out that at the army school where she had taught there was a guy with a machine gun at the back of the class because the army needed to protect its school. "If anyone misbehaved - he would take them out. But without this soldier giving her a helping hand she just couldn't do the discipline." Barry Ryan teaches children with emotional and behavioural difficulties at Moatbridge School in Eltham, south-east London. He says because behaviour is one of the key reasons that pupils are in this special school, teachers have to have a range of tactics to deal with it. Richard Hinton: Sometimes you have to be bloody-minded "We use an incentive system for good behaviour based on pupils getting activities at the end of the week which are funded by the school. "It works well with the Key Stage 3 pupils (aged 11 to 14) but the older ones can be a bit blasé. "The boys, especially, can be quite blasé in front of their friends about going up and getting certificates - but secretly they like it." The school also has a system through which behaviour that is above and beyond what is expected is rewarded with bonus points which build up into vouchers for stores like WH Smith and Argos. "It's the modern day equivalent of the gold star - it's not a new system, it's just how we tailor it to pupils' needs. "I would like to see something where children could pick something out of a catalogue to aim for by the end of term." But isn't it more the role of parents to set their children long term goals? Driving lessons for GCSE passes, a new bike for Christmas if you get good grades or a fiver slipped in the hand for helping out with the household chores? Barbara Galloway, who teaches at a learning support unit at Linton Mead Primary School in Greenwich, says teachers are more and more frequently called upon to take on a quasi-parental role with pupils. She said: "We have so many parents that are so young themselves - they haven't learned how to be parents yet." Mrs Galloway says she even has to teach pupils common courtesies like saying please and thank you and holding the door open for people. Twenty years ago offering pupils rewards for good behaviour went out of fashion, she says. "Reward became a dirty word - now it's come full circle and it's back in favour. "The reward system is good as long as it is not mis-used. "We shouldn't be rewarding pupils for something which they should be doing anyway," she adds. For both Mr Ryan and Mrs Galloway, poor behaviour is inextricably linked to poor reading skills. "If I took you to a country where they were reading Sanskrit and I was writing that on the board - well anyone would behave badly - how bored would you be when you tried to follow it and all you could understand was the odd word," says Mr Ryan. But for all three, the root of poor behaviour often lies in pupil's poor self-esteem. Mr Ryan says: "Many pupils just switch off because they know they can't see themselves getting five grade A to Cs at GCSE." Mr Hinton remembers a girl he taught who gave him no end of trouble. "She wasn't very bright and she didn't want to learn, I would send her out and tell her off and eventually she told me: 'I know - I was a waste of sperm.' "That was the kind of thing she was used to being told at home." But teachers can't make too many allowances for pupil's difficult circumstances, he argues, because there is the rest of the class to think about and they don't understand why someone is getting special treatment. "Ultimately teaching is a compromise, you judge the compromise as best you can and try to keep the lesson flowing." E-mail this to a friend Help and information to make a difference on school issues School behaviour guide criticised 11 Apr 07 | Education Teachers' rights law takes effect 02 Apr 07 | Education Teachers report violent assaults 23 Feb 07 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/default.stm	BBC NEWS | Education Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Radio 4's Midnight News Tuesday, 15 May 2007, 21:58 GMT 22:58 UK Brown pledges academy support Gordon Brown has promised that as leader he would continue the expansion of academies. Maths: who said it was difficult? Pupils 'are urged to drop maths' Extra support for dyslexic pupils A scheme to help pupils with dyslexia is launched in London, in an attempt to share best practice. Academy call for private schools More private schools are being urged to take part in the government's academy project. Johnson's toga history protest Teachers accused of GCSE cheat Council calls time on classrooms Blair applauds school rebuilding US teachers' mock gun attack Female professors in minority LATEST ENGLISH SCHOOL TABLES Secondary school or town name: Primary school or town name: VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Mother wins dyslexia campaign Web tool allows anyone to be a computer programmer He pledged education, education, education. Did Blair deliver? University cuts carbon footprint making bio-diesel from oil Exam paper tags to beat cheats BBC jobs loss on suspended Jam Bullied Australian in A$1m payout Web safety warning for children City teachers could get more cash Schools for gifted expand Heads highlight building problems Secrets of exam success revealed Reviving a 'dead' language Tackling campus culture shock Are school tests on their way out? How to get pupils learning again Teachers reflect on disciplining Teachers accused of GCSE cheating Heads highlight building problems Secrets of exam success revealed Now Shakespeare has been given a manga makeover How to contact the BBC News website education team FROM OTHER BBC SITES See students making their own news and register your school ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/education/6598943.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Game combats campus culture shock Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 27 April 2007, 10:52 GMT 11:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Game combats campus culture shock Freshers' week can be daunting for many students, Mr Maniar says A computer game has been devised to help overseas students deal with the culture shocks of university life in Britain, like seeing kissing in public. Players of C-Shock have to complete a series of tasks a foreign student might face on their first day at university. They include seeing people drinking alcohol and smoking, in a 3D recreation of the University of Portsmouth campus. One of its devisers, academic Nipan Maniar, said he hoped the game would help students know what to expect. We thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phone on the way here so they would know what to expect The senior lecturer in the university's faculty of creative and cultural industries, who is Indian, said he experienced a "massive culture shock" himself when he came to Portsmouth in 2000 to do his MSc. "It was not just the environment I was in, but the teaching - the relationship with tutors was very informal." And many students from places like South Asia were often shocked to see women smoking, drinking and being friendly with the opposite sex, he said. This week, an Indian court issued an arrest warrant for Hollywood actor Richard Gere for kissing Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty in public. Mr Maniar went on: "I deal with many Indian students in my capacity as an international co-ordinator. "They often ask for a long list of all the things they should bring with them to Portsmouth. "Then when they arrive they become very worried and they don't know what to do - they can be really dependent. "So we thought we could devise a game that they could play on their mobile phones on the way here so they would know what to expect - so they don't get so much of a culture shock." Many overseas students are not used to seeing women drink It could be a kind of e-mother or mobile mother, Mr Maniar added. Fellow researcher Emily Bennett, who helped design the prototype of the game, says it has been well received by students. She said a version could also be designed that would be useful for British students too. "For the 18-year-old who is away from home for the first time, who is feeling disorientated and doesn't know where they are, it could help them as well." If they could not find a building they needed to go to, instead of getting out a brochure or a map they could refer to the game instead, she said. The game is the final stages of development but Mr Maniar is looking for a commercial sponsor to help produce it. He also believes gaming could have a much greater role in university learning. International students officer for the National Union of Students Issahaku Kotomah said: "International students can find it hard going, and some students do find elements of UK campus culture a bit of a shock. "It is, ultimately, very positive that the needs of overseas students are being taken into consideration." He said online games could be a powerful tool in helping international students acclimatise to life on a UK campus, as long as they are not solely about imposing a stereotype of campus life. E-mail this to a friend Gere faces Indian arrest warrant 27 Apr 07 | Entertainment Students sign mobile games deal 19 Apr 07 | Lancashire New students feel drink pressure 13 Oct 04 | Cambridgeshire Overseas students plans unveiled 18 Apr 06 | Education The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/education/6647783.stm	BBC NEWS | Education | Heads highlight building problems Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Friday, 11 May 2007, 23:24 GMT 00:24 UK E-mail this to a friend Heads highlight building problems Teachers said there were delays in repairs and maintenance Billions of pounds could be jeopardised if ongoing problems with some school building projects are not addressed, school leaders have warned. Teachers say many of the firms which build and maintain schools provide a poor service or have put up their fees. They also claim that time that should be spent on school work is being wasted resolving contractual issues. The Department for Education and Skills said contractors which fell short were obliged to pay heavy penalties. Time and energy that should be spent on students' education are having to be expended on continuing negotiations with contractors Schools built under the private finance initiative (PFI) are designed, constructed and maintained by private sector firms which then lease them back to a public authority. But the head teacher often has to deal with day-to-day contractual issues. The government admits there were teething problems with early PFI school building projects but claims the lessons have been learnt. However, the Association of School and College Leaders says "legacy issues" remain unresolved in many places. It argues that if the contractual issues which are so burdensome to school leaders are not dealt with they will compromise the education of a generation of students to come. ASCL president Malcolm Trobe said the idea that contracting out the school building process would free up head teachers to concentrate on education has turned out to be a myth. He said: "These PFI legacy issues are proving to be a considerable burden to school leaders, very time consuming and energy sapping. "Time and energy that should be spent on students' education are having to be expended on continuing negotiations with contractors to resolve minor issues. "Unacceptably high management fees for what is often mediocre service are taking away money that should be spent on improving resources for learning. "In many cases, PFI contractors have shown that they are more interested in their profit margins than the welfare of students and the community." Mr Trobe said: "There are issues that need to be resolved at a national level rather than be left to each school or local authority to attempt to solve." In a report to the DfES, the association cites a litany of problems its members are having to deal with in PFI schools. These include long delays in taking action on basic maintenance and repairs, normal wear and tear being charged to the school and shoddy fittings that were not fit for purpose when they were installed. Many also claim access to school buildings out-of-hours can be too difficult or too expensive to obtain. A spokesman for the DfES said PFI contractors were expected to deliver excellent service to schools and value for money for the taxpayer. "That's why heavy financial penalties are negotiated into contracts with local authorities, if contractors fall short. "Those who are involved in negotiating and managing contracts are supported at every step of the way. "No change of contractor can be made unless the local authority agrees and prices cannot be changed arbitrarily." The DfES pledged to work with all the parties involved in such projects and to give direct support to the local councils drawing and handling contracts. It added that a new central helpdesk had been set up to assist with resolving any problems between local authorities and providers. E-mail this to a friend New schools 'not fit for future' 29 Mar 07 | Education Delays hit school building scheme 15 Dec 06 | Education Many new-built schools 'mediocre' 03 Jul 06 | Education Building Schools for the Future The BBC is not responsible for the content of external internet sites Brown pledges academy support Extra support for dyslexic pupils Academy call for private schools MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat Mars starts using animal products Sarkozy soap opera grips Paris Brazilian guilty of US nun murder Japan boy 'severs mother's head' Most popular now, in detail 'No evidence' for Algarve arrest US evangelist Jerry Falwell dies Buyer finds mummy in Spanish flat New doubt cast on Woolmer murder US names general to be 'war tsar' Most popular now, in detail Can the bohemian spirit live on when jazz clubs go smoke-free? How do our family feel now their hi-tech kit has been taken away? Can you exercise and work at the same time? We find out... Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
