http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_SPAM_ARREST_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 30, 8:54 PM EDT Feds in Seattle arrest man described as top spammer AP Legal Affairs Writer SEATTLE (AP) -- A 27-year-old man described as one of the world's top spammers was arrested Wednesday, a development that federal authorities said could lead to an immediate, perceptible decrease in the amount of junk e-mail winging its way across the Web. "He's one of the top 10 spammers in the world," said Tim Cranton, a Microsoft Corp. lawyer who is senior director of the company's Worldwide Internet Safety Programs. "He's a huge problem for our customers. This is a very good day." Robert Alan Soloway's arrest came a week after a federal grand jury returned a 35-count indictment charging him with mail fraud, wire fraud, e-mail fraud, aggravated identity theft and money laundering. He's accused of using networks of compromised computers to send out millions upon millions of junk e-mails since 2003. He continued his activities even after Microsoft won a $7 million civil judgment against him in 2005 and Robert Brauer, the operator of a small Internet service provider in western Oklahoma, won a $10 million judgment, prosecutors said. U.S. Attorney Jeff Sullivan said Wednesday the case is the first in the country in which federal prosecutors have used identity theft statutes to prosecute a spammer for taking over someone else's Internet domain name, and it would mean at least an extra two years on Soloway's sentence if he is convicted. He could face decades in prison, though prosecutors said they have not calculated what guideline sentencing range he might face. In court Wednesday afternoon, Soloway pleaded not guilty to all charges after a judge determined that - even with four bank accounts seized by the government - he was sufficiently well off to pay for his own lawyer. He has been living at the ritzy Harbor Steps apartments near Pike Place Market and drives an expensive Mercedes convertible, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Kathryn Warma. Prosecutors are seeking to have him forfeit $773,000 they say he made from his business, Newport Internet Marketing Corp. A public defender who represented him for Wednesday's hearing only declined to comment. The investigation began when the Federal Trade Commission, Better Business Bureau and Washington state attorney general's office began receiving hundreds of complaints about Soloway, who had been featured on a list of known spammers kept by The Spamhaus Project, an international anti-spam organization. The Santa Barbara County, Calif., Department of Social Services said it was spending $1,000 a week to fight the spam it was receiving, and other businesses and individuals complained of having their reputations damaged when it appeared spam was originating from their computers. "This is not just a nuisance. This is way beyond a nuisance," Warma said. Soloway used networks of compromised computers called "botnets" to send out unsolicited bulk e-mails urging people to use his Internet marketing company to advertise their products. People who clicked on a link in the e-mail were directed to his Web site, where he advertised two types of services. In one, he would agree to send out as many as 20 million e-mail advertisements over 15 days for $495, the indictment said. In another, he would offer to sell software that the buyer could use to "broadcast" e-mails to 80 million e-mail addresses. He falsely claimed the e-mail addresses were all legal, "opt-in" addresses of people who had chosen to receive the solicitations, and at any rate the software he sent typically didn't work, according to the indictment. The Spamhaus Project rejoiced at his arrest. "Soloway has been a long-term nuisance on the Internet - both in terms of the spam he sent, and the people he duped to use his spam service which has, in many cases, got them into trouble," organizers wrote on spamhaus.org. Soloway remained in federal detention pending a hearing Monday.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_HARBORVIEW_FIRE__WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 10:58 AM EDT Smoker starts small fire at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle SEATTLE (AP) -- Harborview Medical Center in Seattle is cleaning up after a small fire started by a mental patient throwing a cigarette in a bathroom trash can. Spokeswoman Susan Gregg-Hanson says a sprinkler activated and put out the fire about 3:30 this morning on the fifth floor. She says the sprinkler caused water damage in eight patient rooms on the third and fourth floors. About 50 patients had to be moved to other parts of the hospital. No one was injured, and the hospital is still assessing the damage. Smoking is not allowed in the hospital. The hospital spokeswoman says she's sure the woman who started the fire feels bad. She will face no repercussions. Gregg-Hanson says, "She's here to get better."
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_BOEING_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 2:58 AM EDT Boeing Japan's new president vows to court government TOKYO (AP) -- Boeing Japan's new president said Thursday that building a strong relationship with the Japanese government was a priority for her job to maintain a key, half-century-long partnership for the U.S. aircraft maker. "We're very proud of this lasting relationship, and we value it very highly," Nicole Piasecki, president of Boeing Co.'s Japan unit since March, told reporters. "Japan is for Boeing the most important relationship we have outside of the United States." Japan has long been one of Chicago-based Boeing's most important customers. In the past decade, more than 80 percent of the airplanes ordered by Japanese customers, including Japan Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co., have been Boeing products. Piasecki said that partnership is strong, extending to working together in government defense projects, including fighters and missile defense as well as commercial aircraft. Boeing has been successful in Japan because of a deep understanding between the two countries developed over the years, she said. Helping cement the ties are dozens of Japanese companies that are longtime Boeing suppliers, including major machinery makers Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Fuji Heavy Industries. Their contribution in making the wing, fuselage and other plane parts has grown greater with Boeing's new 787 mid-sized aircraft, scheduled to enter commercial service next year. Boeing is using light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites to replace most of the aluminum on the 787 to make it more fuel-efficient at a time when soaring fuel costs are a critical problem at carriers. The 787 has attracted 584 orders so far, outpacing the rival offering from Airbus, which has about 260 orders for its A350. All Nippon Airways has ordered 50 787 jets, while JAL has ordered 30. But Boeing Senior Vice President Larry Dickenson said he would never take the Japan partnership for granted. "We've also worked very hard, as in any partnership, not to take the other partner for granted. We work every day to earn the right to have this partnership," he said.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MT_ARLEE_SLAYING_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 9:32 AM EDT Spokane teenager found dead in Montana likely was strangled ARLEE, Mont. (AP) -- A young Spokane, Wash., woman whose body was found on a road southwest of town likely was strangled with a cord, rope or similar object, authorities said. After Tasheena Craft, 18, was found dead Tuesday, authorities said that she had been beaten in the head, but a forensic pathologist at the state crime lab told Lake County investigators Wednesday that she died of "homicidal violence" that included "probable ligature strangulation." Officers have arrested Kelly Birmingham, 19, also known as Kelly Stanfield. Besides murder, he faces an evidence tampering charge for allegedly moving Craft's body and felony escape for allegedly kicking out the window of a patrol vehicle and jumping out while he was being taken to jail. His father, Wayne Stanfield of Arlee, died Sunday in a motorcycle crash on Interstate 90 near Missoula. Craft's mother, Diana Cote, told The Spokesman-Review newspaper of Spokane the killer broke a window and entered her home near Pablo about 3 a.m., then attacked her daughter, pulled her outside and drove off with the young woman in a pickup truck. Cote, an enrolled member of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe who lives on the Flathead Reservation, also told the newspaper she believes the daughter's killing was racially motivated. "We're not ruling it (racism) out, but we have no motive yet," Salish and Kootenai tribal Police Chief Craige Couture said, adding that Birmingham refused to talk with detectives. Investigators said Wednesday that Birmingham was friends with Craft's boyfriend. Craft and Birmingham "knew each other vaguely," Undersheriff Jay Doyle said. Craft's brother, Shonto Pete of Spokane, Wash., told KREM Television there that Craft had been living with him and attending high school in Spokane for the past year. He said she was back in Arlee visiting family and friends when she was killed. "We sent her on a bus to visit her boyfriend, who had just returned from the war," Pete told KREM. "She was adamant. I didn't want her to go because she would miss some school." Pete said Craft's boyfriend, Tyler Vale, is "really confused and angry." "He has to go back to war in a week, and now he has to take this back with him," Pete said. Birmingham spent Wednesday at St. Patrick Hospital in Missoula, where he was taken after allegedly breaking a window and jumping out of a patrol car. Doyle said Birmingham would be transported to the Lake County Detention Center in Polson when he is released from the hospital.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_HORSE_COMMUTE_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 2:32 AM EDT Employees commuting to work on horseback in Port Townsend PORT TOWNSEND, Wash. (AP) -- Behind a parking lot full of Jefferson Transit buses, Missy contentedly munches on grass in her new corral among berry brambles and wild roses. The chocolate brown Arabian mare with a long black mane became Desiree Williams' transportation to and from work at the bus company on Tuesday. "We used to just joke about it," Williams, a maintenance clerk, said from her desk in an office loft overlooking Jefferson Transit's bus maintenance bays at the corner of Upper Sims Way and Hancock Street. But Williams and her transit colleague Betty Mysak got more serious about riding to work after gas prices soared well past $3 a gallon. So why don't they ride the bus? "They're horse aficionados," said Transit General Manager Dave Turissini. "It gives them one more opportunity to ride." Transit employees already use a variety of alternative forms of transportation, such as bicycles and scooters to get to work, Turissini said, so horse power was a natural. "They put the corral up at their own expense," he added. On Tuesday, Williams rose at 5:30 a.m. to saddle up her 15-year-old mare and ride to work. It took her about an hour to travel the 4.5 miles from her home. She said Mysak planned to ride her quarterhorse, 31-year-old Cocoa, from her home in the Hastings and Howard streets area. As Williams sees it, a bale of hay costs $13 and lasts a week. That compares to $40 to $50 to fill up her Nissan six-cylinder pickup truck with gasoline. Also, horse power is almost entirely free of emissions, said Williams with a smile. "It's all biodegradable and it's all green," she said. The makeshift corral is on an undeveloped acre of Jefferson Transit's six acres. The only expense to transit is a little water for the animals. The horses are well behaved, Williams said. But, as a precaution, she and Mysak will stretch an electric fence wire on the corral. That's so the horses don't lean into the lightweight barrier and break it while stretching for a tempting bite of grass as they await the end of their riders' shifts. Information from: Peninsula Daily News,
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_BRF_CC_THREAT_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 30, 10:41 PM EDT Threat targets Seattle CC; security beefed up SEATTLE (AP) -- A threat scrawled on a toilet paper dispenser has prompted authorities to beef up security for Thursday at Seattle Central Community College. "I will kill everyone at SCCC on May 31," said the message, found late last week in a men's restroom. "Faculty, staff and students are advised to use their best personal judgment about reporting to work and classes Thursday," school President Mildred W. Ollee wrote in a letter e-mailed to students and posted on the Web. "... If fear prevents you from coming to campus, accommodations will be made." College spokeswoman Laura Mansfield said she's heard from some people who said they won't be coming to class Thursday. "Every college gets these," she said, adding some faculty decided Thursday "would be a good day for a field trip." Seattle police planned to increase their visibility on campus Thursday, Mansfield said. The college has about 9,000 full- and part-time students. Information from: The Seattle Times,
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GATES_JOBS_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 2:33 AM EDT Gates, Jobs make rare joint appearance at technology conference CARLSBAD, Calif. (AP) -- Legendary technology rivals Bill Gates and Steve Jobs made a rare joint appearance Wednesday and wasted no time making nice. "Bill built the first software company in the industry," said Jobs, co-founder of Apple Inc. "Bill focused on software before anyone." Gates, the Microsoft Corp. co-founder, hailed Jobs for taking big risks and developing products with "incredible taste and elegance." "What Steve has done is quite phenomenal," Gates said. That set the tone for a 90-minute chat in which the two computer industry icons fielded questions from Wall Street Journal columnist Walt Mossberg and technology reporter Kara Swisher at the newspaper's "D: All Things Digital" conference. Jobs and Gates reminisced about early days working together in the 1970s, interspersing their views on the current state of technology. When Swisher asked for the greatest misunderstanding about their relationship, Jobs joked: "We've kept our marriage secret for over a decade now." Gates added: "Neither of us have anything to complain about, in general. It's been fun to work together." The two briefly discussed the 2008 elections. Gates said candidates should be measured on their ideas for improving education. Gates and his wife, Melinda, created the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000, which is now the world's largest philanthropic foundation. The foundation gives a majority of its grants in the areas of world health, global development and education. Although the two companies worked together in the 1970s - Microsoft even invested in a struggling Apple in 1997 - they have remained fierce rivals. Gates dropped out of Harvard University in 1975 to found Microsoft with childhood friend Paul Allen and turned the company into the world's largest maker of computer software. Jobs and friend Steve Wozniak founded Apple in 1976, five years before IBM Corp. jumped into the personal computer market. Jobs left Apple in 1985 following a struggle with the company's board but made a triumphant return in 1997 when Apple was struggling to survive. Jobs is widely credited for Apple's renaissance with a string of innovative products - the iMac computer for consumers, the powerful PowerMac and PowerBook, and more recently, the iPod digital music player. Microsoft has long dominated with its Windows operating system and software programs like Word and Excel, but Apple scored big with its iPod, introduced in 2001, and its iTunes online music store. Next month, Apple introduces its much-anticipated iPhone mobile handset. Microsoft released the Zune music player in November to compete with iPod. An audience member later asked the two men what they learned from each other. "The way he does things is just different. It's magical," Gates said. Jobs said he admired Microsoft's ability to collaborate with other technology companies. "They learned how to partner with people really well, and I think if Apple could have had a little more of that in its DNA, it would have served it extremely well," he said.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_NEUTRINO_LAB_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 2:39 AM EDT Lab buried under WA ski slope would tackle cosmic puzzles SCENIC, Wash. (AP) -- Deep in the granite thousands of feet directly below the Seventh Heaven chairlift at Stevens Pass ski area, white-suited scientists may one day walk through a series of dust-free chambers to figure out how matter came to exist in the universe. That's the vision of University of Washington physicist Wick Haxton. And sometime in the next few weeks, Haxton and the rest of the world will find out whether it's likely to come true. After the UW-led team twice appeared to be knocked out of contention, it now finds itself in the final stretch of a yearslong competition among four sites to build one of the world's deepest underground laboratories. The aim is to unlock the mysteries of an elusive subatomic particle called a neutrino. Scientists say the deeper they go underground, the better they can shield sensitive measuring equipment from the sun's interfering rays. Research on the neutrino, Haxton said, could "change our understanding of everything from the Big Bang onward." At stake is up to $300 million in National Science Foundation money to build the lab and $300 million to conduct the first round of experiments - not to mention bragging rights for any discoveries. But for the UW site, in a tunnel under Cowboy Mountain, to be picked, it would need to beat out the front-runner: the shuttered Homestake gold mine in Lead, S.D. And it's a competition the town of 3,000 is taking very, very seriously. In fact, each Feb. 23, when snowmobiles and skis are out in force, the townsfolk of Lead (pronounced LEED) put up banners along the main drag, organize feasts and judge an art competition. The celebration? "Neutrino Day." Compare that excitement to Washington, where the project has proceeded virtually unnoticed, especially since the UW abandoned an earlier, controversial attempt to put the lab in the Icicle Valley near Leavenworth. NSF spokesman Joshua Chamot said the agency expects to announce a preliminary site decision for its Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory sometime next month. Then follows a three-year, $15 million planning study of the chosen site before the final go-ahead to build the lab. Haxton, 57, is one of perhaps 300 scientists in the country primarily studying neutrinos. It's a tight-knit group that, over recent years, found itself oddly divided into four camps over the lab-siting question. Haxton himself was an early leader of the push to locate the lab in Lead. But after the 8,000-foot-deep Homestake mine closed in 2001 and the new owners switched off water pumps, the lower levels were left to flood. The new owners also questioned whether some of the existing equipment could ever be used again, because of liability concerns. Those factors prompted Haxton to begin looking farther afield. He became convinced that tunneling under a mountain held better prospects than descending into a mine. Meanwhile, scientists in Minnesota and Colorado were promoting their own alternatives. The Soudan site in Minnesota would use a former mine that had already been converted into a lab; the Henderson site west of Denver would use a working molybdenum mine. The UW-led group began its quest for a lab with a team of power players in late 2003. But the initial plan to burrow under Cashmere Mountain and haul away thousands of truckloads of debris met strong resistance from Leavenworth locals and outdoors enthusiasts. In mid-2005, the NSF eliminated the UW and five other sites from the race, and at that point the quest appeared to lose momentum among UW and state leaders. But Haxton successfully appealed the elimination on the basis that the NSF had strayed from its scientific evaluation by considering cost and local objections. Haxton then switched his preferred site to Cowboy Mountain at Stevens Pass, and the NSF, taken by surprise, withdrew a $500,000 design grant. Undeterred, Haxton wrote and submitted a new design proposal in just three months. The new proposal would use the small Pioneer Tunnel on the west side of the Cascades. The tunnel was dug in the 1920s as an access and hauling route for crews constructing the Cascade Tunnel rail route. These days, it functions only as a water-drainage system. The tunnel would be widened to about 15 feet in diameter with rail tracks connecting to the main rail line. That would allow debris to be easily removed by rail and for loads up to 15 tons to be hauled into the tunnel, using battery-powered engines to reduce pollution. A main laboratory with about six rooms would be built 2 1/2 miles into the tunnel, under the peak of Cowboy Mountain. A hoist system would give access to a deeper set of rooms nearly 6,000 feet below the mountain peak. In the future, an even deeper third stage could be built 1 1/2 miles or more below the peak. The UW would rely primarily on NSF money to build the lab. Haxton added that private donations and state economic-development loans might be sought if the UW wins the competition. Marvin Marshak, a physics professor at the University of Minnesota who is leading that state's proposal, said many of his peers think the NSF has favored Homestake all along. He agrees that political considerations likely have played a part in NSF thinking but adds that Haxton's persistence in challenging the process may have forced the agency to become more evenhanded lately. "Wick is very determined, what can I say? He works very hard, extremely hard," Marshak said. "I'm sure that Homestake probably considers him to be the fly in the ointment." Haxton said his rail-based approach allows much heavier equipment to be hauled in more easily and the Northwest location puts the lab in the best position to receive neutrino beams fired from similar labs in Japan, Europe and the U.S. Homestake has the advantage of being the deepest proposal, with a proposed second stage 7,400 feet below the surface. Information from: The Seattle Times,
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_WARM_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 31, 8:56 AM EDT Weather Service says Washington will be warm through weekend SEATTLE (AP) -- The National Weather Service says temperatures across Washington will remain above normal through the weekend. But things are cooling off a bit since yesterday when the thermometer hit a record high 87 in Seattle. Forecasters say today's highs in Western Washington will be in the 70s to lower 80s. In Eastern Washington the highs will be in the 80s and lower 90s. Forecasters say a chance of rain blows into the state on Sunday night.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_GLOBAL_WARMING_CONGRESS_WAOL-?SITE=OKPON&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT May 30, 7:25 PM EDT Inslee says U.S. could learn from Europe about global warming WASHINGTON (AP) -- Rep. Jay Inslee, on a weeklong trip to Europe, said that when it comes to global warming, the United States could learn from its counterparts across the Atlantic. "Frankly, on this one Europe's got it right, and we've got to join them," the Washington state Democrat said Wednesday in a telephone interview from Berlin, Germany. European countries have had both success and failure in tackling global warming, Inslee said. "Now we want to develop an American response to global warming that works and makes sense economically and is effective." Specifically, Inslee said lawmakers are studying a so-called cap-and-trade system that sets limits on carbon dioxide emissions while allowing companies to buy or sell pollution credits so total pollution levels meet a general cap. Inslee, who represents the Seattle area, is traveling with five other House members, including former Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., on a four-country trip to study global warming. Rep. Greg Walden, R-Ore., also is on the trip. Rep. Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., is in Europe on a separate trip led by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. In a statement Wednesday, Walden said Congress will have to act on climate change in the current session. "Hopefully we can learn in person from the Europeans about what has and what has not worked for them," he said in an e-mail. "Their cap-and-trade system, for example, is being called into question for its fairness and effectiveness. We need to be smart enough to learn from the experiences of others." While the United States needs to do all it can to help the environment, "we must do so in a way that works for America and does not chase our jobs overseas or drive up utility rates on consumers," Walden said. Walden and Inslee are members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which organized the current trip. The bipartisan delegation met with industry leaders and government officials in Copenhagen, Denmark, over the weekend before flying to Berlin. The group is scheduled to go to Brussels and London before returning June 3. Inslee said he was fascinated by a tour of what could become the cleanest coal-burning plant in the world. The plant, in Brandenburg, Germany, is a pilot project aimed at capturing and storing carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power. The goal is to almost completely eliminate carbon emissions, producing clean energy that does not contribute to global warming. "It's an exciting development if they can burn coal cleanly," Inslee said. While in Germany the group also met with top advisers to German Chancellor Angela Merkel and members of parliament. "One clear lesson is that you can grow the economy and reduce carbon dioxide emissions at the same time," Inslee said, citing a proliferation of wind turbines and other "clean" energy in both Germany and Denmark. Turbines made in Denmark are being shipped to the Port of Tacoma and installed on wind farms in Washington state, he said. Inslee, who also serves on a special global warming committee, said he expects the energy panel to produce a bill on global warming this summer. Asked about Pelosi's trip, which includes visits to Greenland, Germany and Belgium, Inslee called it a happy coincidence. "This is the challenge of our generation," he said, referring to global warming. "It demands a level of intense personal and community dedication that really surpasses any other challenge we have at the moment - except Iraq of course." Having Pelosi visit Europe - generating headlines around the world - "is useful to bang the drum and blow the bugle" about the importance of global warming, Inslee said. He and other lesser known lawmakers "are down in the boiler room, and we produce the steam," he added. Others on the trip are Rep. Rick Boucher, D-Va., and Republican Reps. Fred Upton of Michigan and Marsha Blackurn of Tennessee.
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MT_ARLEE_SLAYING_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 9:32 AM EDT Spokane teenager found dead in Montana likely was strangled ARLEE, Mont. (AP) -- A young Spokane, Wash., woman whose body was found on a road southwest of town likely was strangled with a cord, rope or similar object, authorities said. After Tasheena Craft, 18, was found dead Tuesday, authorities said that she had been beaten in the head, but a forensic pathologist at the state crime lab told Lake County investigators Wednesday that she died of "homicidal violence" that included "probable ligature strangulation." Officers have arrested Kelly Birmingham, 19, also known as Kelly Stanfield. Besides murder, he faces an evidence tampering charge for allegedly moving Craft's body and felony escape for allegedly kicking out the window of a patrol vehicle and jumping out while he was being taken to jail. His father, Wayne Stanfield of Arlee, died Sunday in a motorcycle crash on Interstate 90 near Missoula. Craft's mother, Diana Cote, told The Spokesman-Review newspaper of Spokane the killer broke a window and entered her home near Pablo about 3 a.m., then attacked her daughter, pulled her outside and drove off with the young woman in a pickup truck. Cote, an enrolled member of the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribe who lives on the Flathead Reservation, also told the newspaper she believes the daughter's killing was racially motivated. "We're not ruling it (racism) out, but we have no motive yet," Salish and Kootenai tribal Police Chief Craige Couture said, adding that Birmingham refused to talk with detectives. Investigators said Wednesday that Birmingham was friends with Craft's boyfriend. Craft and Birmingham "knew each other vaguely," Undersheriff Jay Doyle said. Craft's brother, Shonto Pete of Spokane, Wash., told KREM Television there that Craft had been living with him and attending high school in Spokane for the past year. He said she was back in Arlee visiting family and friends when she was killed. "We sent her on a bus to visit her boyfriend, who had just returned from the war," Pete told KREM. "She was adamant. I didn't want her to go because she would miss some school." Pete said Craft's boyfriend, Tyler Vale, is "really confused and angry." "He has to go back to war in a week, and now he has to take this back with him," Pete said. Birmingham spent Wednesday at St. Patrick Hospital in Missoula, where he was taken after allegedly breaking a window and jumping out of a patrol car. Doyle said Birmingham would be transported to the Lake County Detention Center in Polson when he is released from the hospital. for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/G/GATES_JOBS_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 2:33 AM EDT Gates, Jobs make rare joint appearance at technology conference CARLSBAD, Calif. (AP) -- Legendary technology rivals Bill Gates and Steve Jobs made a rare joint appearance Wednesday and wasted no time making nice. "Bill built the first software company in the industry," said Jobs, co-founder of Apple Inc. "Bill focused on software before anyone." Gates, the Microsoft Corp. co-founder, hailed Jobs for taking big risks and developing products with "incredible taste and elegance." "What Steve has done is quite phenomenal," Gates said. That set the tone for a 90-minute chat in which the two computer industry icons fielded questions from Wall Street Journal columnist Walt Mossberg and technology reporter Kara Swisher at the newspaper's "D: All Things Digital" conference. Jobs and Gates reminisced about early days working together in the 1970s, interspersing their views on the current state of technology. When Swisher asked for the greatest misunderstanding about their relationship, Jobs joked: "We've kept our marriage secret for over a decade now." Gates added: "Neither of us have anything to complain about, in general. It's been fun to work together." The two briefly discussed the 2008 elections. Gates said candidates should be measured on their ideas for improving education. Gates and his wife, Melinda, created the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2000, which is now the world's largest philanthropic foundation. The foundation gives a majority of its grants in the areas of world health, global development and education. Although the two companies worked together in the 1970s - Microsoft even invested in a struggling Apple in 1997 - they have remained fierce rivals. Gates dropped out of Harvard University in 1975 to found Microsoft with childhood friend Paul Allen and turned the company into the world's largest maker of computer software. Jobs and friend Steve Wozniak founded Apple in 1976, five years before IBM Corp. jumped into the personal computer market. Jobs left Apple in 1985 following a struggle with the company's board but made a triumphant return in 1997 when Apple was struggling to survive. Jobs is widely credited for Apple's renaissance with a string of innovative products - the iMac computer for consumers, the powerful PowerMac and PowerBook, and more recently, the iPod digital music player. Microsoft has long dominated with its Windows operating system and software programs like Word and Excel, but Apple scored big with its iPod, introduced in 2001, and its iTunes online music store. Next month, Apple introduces its much-anticipated iPhone mobile handset. Microsoft released the Zune music player in November to compete with iPod. An audience member later asked the two men what they learned from each other. "The way he does things is just different. It's magical," Gates said. Jobs said he admired Microsoft's ability to collaborate with other technology companies. "They learned how to partner with people really well, and I think if Apple could have had a little more of that in its DNA, it would have served it extremely well," he said. for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_BRF_CC_THREAT_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 30, 10:41 PM EDT Threat targets Seattle CC; security beefed up SEATTLE (AP) -- A threat scrawled on a toilet paper dispenser has prompted authorities to beef up security for Thursday at Seattle Central Community College. "I will kill everyone at SCCC on May 31," said the message, found late last week in a men's restroom. "Faculty, staff and students are advised to use their best personal judgment about reporting to work and classes Thursday," school President Mildred W. Ollee wrote in a letter e-mailed to students and posted on the Web. "... If fear prevents you from coming to campus, accommodations will be made." College spokeswoman Laura Mansfield said she's heard from some people who said they won't be coming to class Thursday. "Every college gets these," she said, adding some faculty decided Thursday "would be a good day for a field trip." Seattle police planned to increase their visibility on campus Thursday, Mansfield said. The college has about 9,000 full- and part-time students. Information from: The Seattle Times, for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_HARBORVIEW_FIRE__WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 10:58 AM EDT Smoker starts small fire at Harborview Medical Center in Seattle SEATTLE (AP) -- Harborview Medical Center in Seattle is cleaning up after a small fire started by a mental patient throwing a cigarette in a bathroom trash can. Spokeswoman Susan Gregg-Hanson says a sprinkler activated and put out the fire about 3:30 this morning on the fifth floor. She says the sprinkler caused water damage in eight patient rooms on the third and fourth floors. About 50 patients had to be moved to other parts of the hospital. No one was injured, and the hospital is still assessing the damage. Smoking is not allowed in the hospital. The hospital spokeswoman says she's sure the woman who started the fire feels bad. She will face no repercussions. Gregg-Hanson says, "She's here to get better." for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_WARM_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 8:56 AM EDT Weather Service says Washington will be warm through weekend SEATTLE (AP) -- The National Weather Service says temperatures across Washington will remain above normal through the weekend. But things are cooling off a bit since yesterday when the thermometer hit a record high 87 in Seattle. Forecasters say today's highs in Western Washington will be in the 70s to lower 80s. In Eastern Washington the highs will be in the 80s and lower 90s. Forecasters say a chance of rain blows into the state on Sunday night. for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_SPAM_ARREST_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 30, 8:54 PM EDT Feds in Seattle arrest man described as top spammer AP Legal Affairs Writer SEATTLE (AP) -- A 27-year-old man described as one of the world's top spammers was arrested Wednesday, a development that federal authorities said could lead to an immediate, perceptible decrease in the amount of junk e-mail winging its way across the Web. "He's one of the top 10 spammers in the world," said Tim Cranton, a Microsoft Corp. lawyer who is senior director of the company's Worldwide Internet Safety Programs. "He's a huge problem for our customers. This is a very good day." Robert Alan Soloway's arrest came a week after a federal grand jury returned a 35-count indictment charging him with mail fraud, wire fraud, e-mail fraud, aggravated identity theft and money laundering. He's accused of using networks of compromised computers to send out millions upon millions of junk e-mails since 2003. He continued his activities even after Microsoft won a $7 million civil judgment against him in 2005 and Robert Brauer, the operator of a small Internet service provider in western Oklahoma, won a $10 million judgment, prosecutors said. U.S. Attorney Jeff Sullivan said Wednesday the case is the first in the country in which federal prosecutors have used identity theft statutes to prosecute a spammer for taking over someone else's Internet domain name, and it would mean at least an extra two years on Soloway's sentence if he is convicted. He could face decades in prison, though prosecutors said they have not calculated what guideline sentencing range he might face. In court Wednesday afternoon, Soloway pleaded not guilty to all charges after a judge determined that - even with four bank accounts seized by the government - he was sufficiently well off to pay for his own lawyer. He has been living at the ritzy Harbor Steps apartments near Pike Place Market and drives an expensive Mercedes convertible, said Assistant U.S. Attorney Kathryn Warma. Prosecutors are seeking to have him forfeit $773,000 they say he made from his business, Newport Internet Marketing Corp. A public defender who represented him for Wednesday's hearing only declined to comment. The investigation began when the Federal Trade Commission, Better Business Bureau and Washington state attorney general's office began receiving hundreds of complaints about Soloway, who had been featured on a list of known spammers kept by The Spamhaus Project, an international anti-spam organization. The Santa Barbara County, Calif., Department of Social Services said it was spending $1,000 a week to fight the spam it was receiving, and other businesses and individuals complained of having their reputations damaged when it appeared spam was originating from their computers. "This is not just a nuisance. This is way beyond a nuisance," Warma said. Soloway used networks of compromised computers called "botnets" to send out unsolicited bulk e-mails urging people to use his Internet marketing company to advertise their products. People who clicked on a link in the e-mail were directed to his Web site, where he advertised two types of services. In one, he would agree to send out as many as 20 million e-mail advertisements over 15 days for $495, the indictment said. In another, he would offer to sell software that the buyer could use to "broadcast" e-mails to 80 million e-mail addresses. He falsely claimed the e-mail addresses were all legal, "opt-in" addresses of people who had chosen to receive the solicitations, and at any rate the software he sent typically didn't work, according to the indictment. The Spamhaus Project rejoiced at his arrest. "Soloway has been a long-term nuisance on the Internet - both in terms of the spam he sent, and the people he duped to use his spam service which has, in many cases, got them into trouble," organizers wrote on spamhaus.org. Soloway remained in federal detention pending a hearing Monday. for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/J/JAPAN_BOEING_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 2:58 AM EDT Boeing Japan's new president vows to court government TOKYO (AP) -- Boeing Japan's new president said Thursday that building a strong relationship with the Japanese government was a priority for her job to maintain a key, half-century-long partnership for the U.S. aircraft maker. "We're very proud of this lasting relationship, and we value it very highly," Nicole Piasecki, president of Boeing Co.'s Japan unit since March, told reporters. "Japan is for Boeing the most important relationship we have outside of the United States." Japan has long been one of Chicago-based Boeing's most important customers. In the past decade, more than 80 percent of the airplanes ordered by Japanese customers, including Japan Airlines Corp. and All Nippon Airways Co., have been Boeing products. Piasecki said that partnership is strong, extending to working together in government defense projects, including fighters and missile defense as well as commercial aircraft. Boeing has been successful in Japan because of a deep understanding between the two countries developed over the years, she said. Helping cement the ties are dozens of Japanese companies that are longtime Boeing suppliers, including major machinery makers Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Fuji Heavy Industries. Their contribution in making the wing, fuselage and other plane parts has grown greater with Boeing's new 787 mid-sized aircraft, scheduled to enter commercial service next year. Boeing is using light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites to replace most of the aluminum on the 787 to make it more fuel-efficient at a time when soaring fuel costs are a critical problem at carriers. The 787 has attracted 584 orders so far, outpacing the rival offering from Airbus, which has about 260 orders for its A350. All Nippon Airways has ordered 50 787 jets, while JAL has ordered 30. But Boeing Senior Vice President Larry Dickenson said he would never take the Japan partnership for granted. "We've also worked very hard, as in any partnership, not to take the other partner for granted. We work every day to earn the right to have this partnership," he said. for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_YAKIMA_IMMIGRATION_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 12:13 PM EDT Hastings assailed on immigration, Yakima bishop seeks compassion YAKIMA, Wash. (AP) -- Opponents of a major immigration bill gave a hostile reception to Rep. Doc Hastings and demonstrated outside the office of Sen. Patty Murray as a Roman Catholic bishop appealed for compassion on the issue. Provisions in the sweeping overhaul of the nation's immigration laws that would open a path to citizenship for an estimated 12 million undocumented residents drew the most ire as Hastings, R-Wash., held a town hall meeting attended by about 100 people Wednesday in nearby Selah. Hastings would not say whether he would support the bill but denied that the citizenship provision was like the amnesty approved by Congress for illegal immigrants in 1986. He also praised other provisions of the omnibus compromise, including a guest worker program and tighter border security. "Everybody has a different definition" of amnesty, Hastings said, "and my definition would be modeled after the '86 act where those that were here, after registering, became citizens. That is not the case at all with what is being suggested." The measure before the Senate would allow undocumented immigrants to remain in the U.S. legally by paying a $5,000 fine and obtaining "Z" visas, and they could eventually apply for citizenship. Heads of households in the country illegally would have to return to their home countries to apply for a green card for permanent legal residency. If the legislation reaches the House, Hastings said, "my focus ... is going to be on a guest-worker provision and obviously a strong border-security component." Meanwhile, outside Murray's office in Yakima, more than a dozen protesters from Grassroots of Yakima Valley, Minuteman Civil Defense Corps and the STOP (So Tired Of Paying) Committee held signs demanding tighter border security and opposing citizenship provisions in the bill. "Until our borders are secured, nothing else will accomplish anything," STOP founder Sandra Belzer Brendale said. "We want people obeying our laws." Protesters said they wanted to give some material on their viewpoint to Murray, D-Wash., but no one was in her office at the time. The previous night, Yakima Bishop Carlos A. Sevilla told nearly 200 people at an immigration forum that while the nation must protect its borders, compassion is also vital, especially in maintaining family unity. Citing biblical passages on the departure of the patriarch Abraham from his homeland and of the ancient Hebrews from Egypt, Sevilla said people should have a right to migrate and to respect in seeking the means to support themselves and their families. Rather than giving priority to family ties, the legislation backed by key Senate leaders and President Bush would establish a point system weighted to education and work skills. Amanda Higginson, 20, of Yakima, who participates in a diocesan youth ministry, said immigrants deserve a better break. "It's so easy for people to criticize immigrants who (they) don't understand," Higginson said. "A lot of immigrants are in desperate situations, and the laws are too strict." Information from: Yakima Herald-Republic, for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_NEUTRINO_LAB_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 2:39 AM EDT Lab buried under WA ski slope would tackle cosmic puzzles SCENIC, Wash. (AP) -- Deep in the granite thousands of feet directly below the Seventh Heaven chairlift at Stevens Pass ski area, white-suited scientists may one day walk through a series of dust-free chambers to figure out how matter came to exist in the universe. That's the vision of University of Washington physicist Wick Haxton. And sometime in the next few weeks, Haxton and the rest of the world will find out whether it's likely to come true. After the UW-led team twice appeared to be knocked out of contention, it now finds itself in the final stretch of a yearslong competition among four sites to build one of the world's deepest underground laboratories. The aim is to unlock the mysteries of an elusive subatomic particle called a neutrino. Scientists say the deeper they go underground, the better they can shield sensitive measuring equipment from the sun's interfering rays. Research on the neutrino, Haxton said, could "change our understanding of everything from the Big Bang onward." At stake is up to $300 million in National Science Foundation money to build the lab and $300 million to conduct the first round of experiments - not to mention bragging rights for any discoveries. But for the UW site, in a tunnel under Cowboy Mountain, to be picked, it would need to beat out the front-runner: the shuttered Homestake gold mine in Lead, S.D. And it's a competition the town of 3,000 is taking very, very seriously. In fact, each Feb. 23, when snowmobiles and skis are out in force, the townsfolk of Lead (pronounced LEED) put up banners along the main drag, organize feasts and judge an art competition. The celebration? "Neutrino Day." Compare that excitement to Washington, where the project has proceeded virtually unnoticed, especially since the UW abandoned an earlier, controversial attempt to put the lab in the Icicle Valley near Leavenworth. NSF spokesman Joshua Chamot said the agency expects to announce a preliminary site decision for its Deep Underground Science and Engineering Laboratory sometime next month. Then follows a three-year, $15 million planning study of the chosen site before the final go-ahead to build the lab. Haxton, 57, is one of perhaps 300 scientists in the country primarily studying neutrinos. It's a tight-knit group that, over recent years, found itself oddly divided into four camps over the lab-siting question. Haxton himself was an early leader of the push to locate the lab in Lead. But after the 8,000-foot-deep Homestake mine closed in 2001 and the new owners switched off water pumps, the lower levels were left to flood. The new owners also questioned whether some of the existing equipment could ever be used again, because of liability concerns. Those factors prompted Haxton to begin looking farther afield. He became convinced that tunneling under a mountain held better prospects than descending into a mine. Meanwhile, scientists in Minnesota and Colorado were promoting their own alternatives. The Soudan site in Minnesota would use a former mine that had already been converted into a lab; the Henderson site west of Denver would use a working molybdenum mine. The UW-led group began its quest for a lab with a team of power players in late 2003. But the initial plan to burrow under Cashmere Mountain and haul away thousands of truckloads of debris met strong resistance from Leavenworth locals and outdoors enthusiasts. In mid-2005, the NSF eliminated the UW and five other sites from the race, and at that point the quest appeared to lose momentum among UW and state leaders. But Haxton successfully appealed the elimination on the basis that the NSF had strayed from its scientific evaluation by considering cost and local objections. Haxton then switched his preferred site to Cowboy Mountain at Stevens Pass, and the NSF, taken by surprise, withdrew a $500,000 design grant. Undeterred, Haxton wrote and submitted a new design proposal in just three months. The new proposal would use the small Pioneer Tunnel on the west side of the Cascades. The tunnel was dug in the 1920s as an access and hauling route for crews constructing the Cascade Tunnel rail route. These days, it functions only as a water-drainage system. The tunnel would be widened to about 15 feet in diameter with rail tracks connecting to the main rail line. That would allow debris to be easily removed by rail and for loads up to 15 tons to be hauled into the tunnel, using battery-powered engines to reduce pollution. A main laboratory with about six rooms would be built 2 1/2 miles into the tunnel, under the peak of Cowboy Mountain. A hoist system would give access to a deeper set of rooms nearly 6,000 feet below the mountain peak. In the future, an even deeper third stage could be built 1 1/2 miles or more below the peak. The UW would rely primarily on NSF money to build the lab. Haxton added that private donations and state economic-development loans might be sought if the UW wins the competition. Marvin Marshak, a physics professor at the University of Minnesota who is leading that state's proposal, said many of his peers think the NSF has favored Homestake all along. He agrees that political considerations likely have played a part in NSF thinking but adds that Haxton's persistence in challenging the process may have forced the agency to become more evenhanded lately. "Wick is very determined, what can I say? He works very hard, extremely hard," Marshak said. "I'm sure that Homestake probably considers him to be the fly in the ointment." Haxton said his rail-based approach allows much heavier equipment to be hauled in more easily and the Northwest location puts the lab in the best position to receive neutrino beams fired from similar labs in Japan, Europe and the U.S. Homestake has the advantage of being the deepest proposal, with a proposed second stage 7,400 feet below the surface. Information from: The Seattle Times, for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_HORSE_COMMUTE_WAOL-?SITE=MOSPL&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT News-Leader.com | Springfield, MO Daily Headlines &#149; Breaking News May 31, 2:32 AM EDT Employees commuting to work on horseback in Port Townsend PORT TOWNSEND, Wash. (AP) -- Behind a parking lot full of Jefferson Transit buses, Missy contentedly munches on grass in her new corral among berry brambles and wild roses. The chocolate brown Arabian mare with a long black mane became Desiree Williams' transportation to and from work at the bus company on Tuesday. "We used to just joke about it," Williams, a maintenance clerk, said from her desk in an office loft overlooking Jefferson Transit's bus maintenance bays at the corner of Upper Sims Way and Hancock Street. But Williams and her transit colleague Betty Mysak got more serious about riding to work after gas prices soared well past $3 a gallon. So why don't they ride the bus? "They're horse aficionados," said Transit General Manager Dave Turissini. "It gives them one more opportunity to ride." Transit employees already use a variety of alternative forms of transportation, such as bicycles and scooters to get to work, Turissini said, so horse power was a natural. "They put the corral up at their own expense," he added. On Tuesday, Williams rose at 5:30 a.m. to saddle up her 15-year-old mare and ride to work. It took her about an hour to travel the 4.5 miles from her home. She said Mysak planned to ride her quarterhorse, 31-year-old Cocoa, from her home in the Hastings and Howard streets area. As Williams sees it, a bale of hay costs $13 and lasts a week. That compares to $40 to $50 to fill up her Nissan six-cylinder pickup truck with gasoline. Also, horse power is almost entirely free of emissions, said Williams with a smile. "It's all biodegradable and it's all green," she said. The makeshift corral is on an undeveloped acre of Jefferson Transit's six acres. The only expense to transit is a little water for the animals. The horses are well behaved, Williams said. But, as a precaution, she and Mysak will stretch an electric fence wire on the corral. That's so the horses don't lean into the lightweight barrier and break it while stretching for a tempting bite of grass as they await the end of their riders' shifts. Information from: Peninsula Daily News, for the News-Leader &copy; 2005 Springfield News-Leader. Use of this site signifies your agreement to the , updated June 7, 2005
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WHALE_MOVING_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 1:03 PM EDT Young beluga whale set to move from Chicago to Tacoma CHICAGO (AP) -- The first surviving male beluga whale to be born at the John G. Shedd Aquarium is getting ready to move to a new home at the Point Defiance Zoo & Aquarium in Tacoma, Wash. Qannik (kah-NIK'), an Inuit word for snowflake, will be transported in a DC-8 military transport outfitted with a custom-made, fleece-lined sling suspended in a shallow tank of ice water, Point Defiance officials said. The $120,000 cost of the move, including $84,000 for the flight, is being borne by the Tacoma zoo, spokeswoman Jennifer Huntley said. He'll be on view as soon as the day after he arrives, which officials said should be no later than June 21. Qannik was born in August 2000, a year after the first successful birth of a female beluga at the Shedd. Currently 11 feet long and about 1,000 pounds, he's expected to reach 14 to 16 feet in length and possibly double his weight within a few years. In Tacoma he'll be joining Beethoven, a 14-year-old male beluga who has been swimming solo since tank mate Turner died of a liver malady in September. Qannik technically belongs to Point Defiance because his mother, Mauyak (MI-yak), is still owned by the Tacoma zoo. Mauyak, whose name means soft snow, arrived in Tacoma in 1984 after being captured from Hudson Bay in Manitoba and gave birth to two calves at Point Defiance, but both died within moments - the first in 1992 of a malformed respiratory system and the second two years later of drowning when her blow hole opened under water. The death of the second calf was attributed to Mauyak's inexperience, so to help her learn by watching other females she was moved to the Chicago aquarium in 1997 as part of a national cooperative breeding program. She bore another calf that also died soon after birth in 1998, then was successful with Qannik after witnessing several other whales deliver their young. Beethoven belongs to Sea World and is in Tacoma as part of the breeding program. Point Defiance's role in the program is to obtain semen from male belugas for use in artificial insemination, aquatic animal curator John H. Rupp said. Information from: The News Tribune, Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/ News from The Associated Press
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_STARBUCKS_MCCARTNEY_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 4:41 PM EDT Starbucks' music label debuts with new Paul McCartney CD By ELIZABETH M. GILLESPIE SEATTLE (AP) -- Caffeine junkies who go to Starbucks for their daily fix will get a nonstop dose of Paul McCartney's "Memory Almost Full" on Tuesday as the coffee company's new record label releases its first CD. Starbucks Corp. estimates that some 6 million people will be among the first to hear the new album as they line up for their lattes in more than 10,000 stores in 29 countries, where it will be playing on continuous loop throughout the day. It's a tactic most retailers would not likely attempt "probably for no other reason than not wanting to drive their workers insane," quipped Mike McGuire, an analyst for Gartner Inc. Still, McGuire said Starbucks has proved to be adept at selling music and thinks it's smart for the company to tap into its vast customer base. "Let's face it. The energy has kind of gone out of the CD store launch," McGuire said, "so you've got to go where (consumers) are, which is typically buying coffee at a Starbucks." Ken Lombard, president of Starbucks' entertainment division, said he's not worried about customers or baristas succumbing to McCartney overload. "To the contrary, we think everybody's going to be really excited," he said. Starbucks co-founded its Hear Music label with Concord Music Group in March. McCartney was in the final stages of recording and mastering his latest set of songs when he signed a one-album deal with Hear Music, becoming the label's first artist. "Once we heard the album ... we just knew this was a phenomenal record," Lombard said. "It is the most personal and revealing album that Paul has created in his solo career. ... It's such a reflection of his life and his career, I mean, the ups and downs and the recognition of really what a remarkable journey it has been. So it was really for us the perfect fit." Lombard said he hasn't set any sales targets for "Memory Almost Full" but that he'd be "ecstatic" if it ends up rivaling "Genius Loves Company," an album of Ray Charles duets that Starbucks and Concord co-released in 2004. It won eight Grammy awards the following year and has sold more than 5.5 million copies worldwide. McCartney remains Hear Music's only artist, but Lombard said the label remains on track with previously announced plans to sign two more artists this year and eight next year. Executives remain hopeful that McCartney will sign on for future albums. "The relationship is going very well between us, and it is our hope that Paul is feeling the same way," Lombard said. "When the time is right, we'll talk about what the next steps are going to be beyond this, but right now our focus is doing everything we can to ensure that 'Memory Almost Full' is an extraordinary success." A spokesman for McCartney declined to comment. In addition to playing and selling the album in its stores, Starbucks got XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc. to play McCartney music exclusively on one of its channels Tuesday, putting "Memory Almost Full" in heavy rotation. Hear Music has also hired crews in London, New York, Berlin, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Seattle, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Miami to film footage of McCartney fans wishing him happy birthday for a video tribute that will be broadcast on Internet social-networking sites, including Google Inc.'s YouTube, Yahoo Inc.'s Yahoo360 and Microsoft Corp.'s Windows Live Spaces, on the artist's 65th birthday June 18. Most labels lean heavily on artist appearances for CD releases, but Lombard said Monday it was not yet clear exactly what McCartney would be doing the day of the release. "Paul likes to work in a way that he comes in and provides a great surprise to his fans and to music consumers, and that's an approach we're all on board with," Lombard said. Hear Music hasn't completely abandoned more traditional marketing methods, but is relying a lot less on advance radio play and music reviews ahead of "Memory Almost Full's" release. The album will be sold at most Starbucks stores worldwide, in all major music retailers, and on Apple Inc.'s iTunes online music store, making it the first of McCartney's 21 solo albums to be released digitally. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/F/FRANCE_AIRBUS_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 2:13 PM EDT Airbus plans to produce 13 A350 aircraft per month by 2016 TOULOUSE, France (AP) -- Airbus, the ailing European planemaker, will be producing its delayed A350 XWB plane at a rate of 13 per month by 2016, making it the fastest made wide-bodied plane at Airbus, Chief Engineer Gordon McConnell said Monday. The revamped plane enters into service in 2013 - five years after U.S. rival Boeing's 787 Dreamliner, expected to be a top competitor along with the 777. Delivery would be at 13 per month in 2017. Airbus has been losing customers for mid-sized planes to Boeing and was forced last year to launch a costly redesign of the planned A350. Boeing has not disclosed monthly production rates it is projecting for the 787, but has said it would deliver 112 planes for the first two years. Alan Pardoe, Airbus director of product marketing, said that despite the delay, Airbus hoped to grab a "good 50 percent" of the market for wide-bodied planes up to 400 seats, and estimated that would amount to 5,300 planes over 20 years. The two officials spoke with a small group of reporters. Airbus claims its A350 XWD, made from carbon fiber wings and composites, will be lighter per seat and more economical than existing aircraft. McConnell, the chief engineer, strongly denied media reports that carriers including Qatar Airways, Singapore Airlines Ltd., Emirates and the International Lease Finance Corp. were pressing Airbus for changes to the A350's fuselage design. Airbus' decision to use four long panels "allows us to optimize our design of the fuselage," he said. "It gives us a better trade-off of weight versus cost." Airbus got a much-needed boost last week from Qatar Airways, which ordered an extra 20 A350 XWD. The European planemaker has 155 pledges on its books for the new model, of which 13 are firm commitments. Including orders for the old model, which Airbus is having to renegotiate with customers, there are 268 pledges. That's still far behind the 584 orders Boeing has for its equivalent 787 Dreamliner, due to enter commercial service next May. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_BRF_USS_LINCOLN_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 3, 8:25 PM EDT USS Lincoln maintenance nears completion in Bremerton BREMERTON, Wash. (AP) -- Several months of maintenance work on the USS Lincoln is set to wrap up this month at the Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, and the aircraft carrier will then head home to Naval Station Everett. The crew of about 3,200 sailors had expected to cast off from Bremerton in mid-March, about six months after it drydocked for repairs. But about $142 million in maintenance and alterations proved more complex than expected, said the ship spokesman, Lt. Cmdr. John Filostrat. "That plan was very ambitious," Filostrat said. The work included catapult repairs and upgrades to the carrier's navigation equipment and defense systems. About a third of the work was handled by the shipyard, about a third by the crew and a third by contractors. After sea trials and carrier qualifications for about a week, the carrier will tie up in Everett but then head out to pick up its air wing in San Diego and prepare to deploy early next year. About half the crew members, many of them married, have been commuting four hours a day between the Everett-based carrier and their homes in Snohomish County. Other crew members either live on the ship or in the Bremerton area. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_FORT_LEWIS_MEMORIAL_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 1:31 PM EDT Memorial service tomorrow at Fort Lewis for four soldiers FORT LEWIS, Wash. (AP) -- Fort Lewis is holding a memorial service Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. in Soldier Field House for four Stryker brigade soldiers killed in Iraq. Staff Sgt. David Kuehl, Staff Sgt. Kristopher Higdon and Pfc. Robert Worthington were killed May 22 by roadside bombs. Cpl. Mathew LaForest was killed May 25 by small arms fire in combat, the Defense Department said. All were members of the 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division Stryker brigade that was deployed to Iraq in April. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://apdigitalnews.com/privacy.html AP Digital | Terms of Use
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_MACHINISTS_STRIKE_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 3:21 PM EDT Machinists at Spokane Triumph plant reach deal SPOKANE, Wash. (AP) -- Workers at a parts plant that makes floor panels for Boeing Co. and Airbus jetliners have reached agreement with the company and are voting to see if a strike that started Friday will continue, a union spokeswoman said Monday. Negotiators for the Machinists union and for Triumph Composite Systems Inc. reached a tentative agreement early Monday to end the strike, the union said in a news release. Workers began voting on the offer Monday, said union spokeswoman Connie Kelliher. Details were not being released. Officials for Triumph declined to comment to of the 371-person unit of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers struck Friday over wages and benefits. Talks to end the strike began Sunday afternoon, the union said. Kelliher said the main issues included a big disparity in wages between new hires and older workers. "We want more money for new hires," she said, while declining to provide details until after the vote. Union officials said the dispute also involves wages of former Boeing workers who were on layoff when Triumph acquired the plant. The current starting wage for production mechanics is $11.56 an hour with step increases to $22.01 per hour, according to a job listing Triumph posted this week on a state employment Web page. The Spokane Economic Development Council said the average hourly wage for manufacturing in Spokane is $17.21. Triumph purchased the plant from Boeing in February 2003. It has grown from 243 to 371 union workers. Tom Wroblewski, president of Machinists District Lodge 751 in Seattle, said employees took 15 percent pay cuts to keep their jobs when Triumph took over. The company has said that its offer represents a 17.4 percent increase in wages and benefits over the life of the contract and a 28 percent increase since it bought the plant in 2003. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/S/SCOTUS_WASHINGTON_MURDER_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 11:10 AM EDT Supreme Court reinstates death sentence for man convicted in carjacking, rape, murder WASHINGTON (AP) -- The Supreme Court reinstated the death sentence Monday of a Washington state man convicted of carjacking, rape and murder who initially won a reprieve by arguing that a potential juror was wrongly excluded from his trial. The court, in a 5-4 decision, said that the Washington judge who presided over the trial of Cal Coburn Brown properly used his discretion to excuse a potential juror who expressed equivocal views about the death penalty. The juror in question was challenged by prosecutors because he indicated he would impose the death penalty only if the defendant were in the position to kill again. Jurors' options were limited: they could sentence Brown to death or life in prison with no parole. Defense lawyers did not object at trial. When the issue was raised on appeal, Washington state courts and a federal judge affirmed the conviction. But the 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the juror should not have been excused because he said he would consider the death penalty in an appropriate case. Justice Anthony Kennedy, the deciding vote in every death case the court has heard this session, said the appeals court should have deferred to the trial judge. "But where, as here, there is lengthy questioning of a prospective juror and the trial court has supervised a diligent and thoughtful (examination), the trial court has broad discretion," Kennedy wrote for the majority. Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Samuel Alito, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas joined the opinion. Justice John Paul Stevens, reading a strong dissent from the bench, said the court wiped away earlier decisions that allow death penalty opponents to sit on juries in capital cases, provided they demonstrate they can set aside their beliefs and follow the law. Stevens noted that in this case, "the juror struck for cause was not even an opponent of the death penalty." Justices Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and David Souter also dissented. Brown carjacked Holly Washa, 21, and drove her to a hotel near Seattle-Tacoma International Airport. He held her at the motel before leaving her to die. Brown turned himself in after he raped and tried to kill another woman in Palm Springs, Calif. He admitted to both crimes. In 1993, a King County jury convicted him and sentenced him to die. A three-judge appeals court panel set aside the death sentence in December 2005. In a separate death penalty case, the court without comment declined the appeal of a Kentucky man who was represented by a lawyer and convicted by jurors who didn't know his real name. A federal judge decided Jeffrey Devan Leonard's lawyer was so bad that she granted him a new sentencing hearing. A panel of appeals court judges reversed that ruling, saying the lawyer's performance was "deficient," but not so bad it unfairly affected the jury's decision or violated the Constitution. The full 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals voted 7-7 against rehearing the case. It takes a majority of the court to rehear a case. The seven judges on the losing end of the vote took the unusual step of issuing a dissenting opinion, saying it was no surprise that the jury felt compelled to sentence Leonard to death, given they believed there was "not even a single family member to suggest his life should be spared." Leonard is on Kentucky's Death Row as James Earl Slaughter, after being convicted for the 1983 murder of a consignment store owner in Louisville. The lawyer admitted he did little to investigate his client's background, including his family's history of abusive behavior toward him. The cases are Uttecht v. Brown, 06-413, and Leonard v. Simpson, 06-1317. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_SOLDIER_KILLED_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 3:26 PM EDT Fort Lewis Stryker brigade soldier killed in Iraq FORT LEWIS, Wash. (AP) -- A Louisiana soldier with one of Fort Lewis' two Stryker brigades in Iraq has been killed, the Department of Defense said Monday. Spc. William J. Crouch, 21, of Zachary, La., died Saturday in Al Hadid when a roadside bomb exploded near his vehicle. Crouch was a cavalry scout with the 2nd Squadron, 1st Cavalry Regiment of the 4th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division at Fort Lewis, south of Tacoma. He joined the Army his senior year in high school. His desire to serve came from his father, James Crouch, a Baton Rouge policeman who died of natural causes when Crouch was 13, his mother, Kathy Rushing, said. He wanted to be "in the thick of things ... on the front lines," she said. Rushing said casualty assistance soldiers from Fort Polk told her Saturday night that her son had been killed while on patrol. Crouch's younger brother, John Crouch, a reservist with a maintenance company stationed in Iraq, would try to join his brother's body on the flight back to the U.S., Rushing said. "We're hoping he'll be able to bring his brother home," she said. The 4th Brigade has lost 10 soldiers since leaving for Iraq in April on what has since been extended to a 15-month tour in the country. On Tuesday, it plans a memorial service at Fort Lewis for Staff Sgts. David Kuehl and Kristopher Higdon, Pfc. Robert Worthington, and Cpl. Mathew LaForest. The four were among 20 Fort Lewis soldiers killed in multiple attacks last month, the deadliest for the post - as well as for troops with ties to the state - since the war began in March 2003. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/M/MICROSOFT_XANDROS_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 10:40 AM EDT Microsoft strikes deal with Linux software distributor Xandros SEATTLE (AP) -- Microsoft Corp. on Monday announced a collaboration with Xandros Inc., a small Linux distributor, the latest in a string of deals between the world's largest seller of patent-protected software and the open-source community. Under the terms of the agreement, New York-based Xandros, which makes and distributes open-source desktop and server software, will license server technology from Microsoft and develop software tools that work with Microsoft's systems. The two companies will also work on technology to translate between two different types of documents, Microsoft-developed OpenXML format and the Open Document Format. Key to the agreement is a clause that protects Xandros customers from running afoul of Microsoft's legal machine for patent infringement. A growing number of companies and government agencies rely on elements of both Microsoft's Windows and various versions of Linux to run their office networks, but fear being sued by the software maker, which claims open source software infringes on hundreds of its patents. Financial terms of the arrangement weren't disclosed. The Linux server software segment is dominated by Red Hat Inc. and Novell Inc.; Xandros' share of that worldwide market is so small that research group IDC doesn't track it. Xandros captured less than 1 percent of the desktop Linux operating system market in 2006, according to IDC, far behind big players like Red Flag Software Co., based in China, and Turbolinux Inc. in Japan. The deal with Xandros is similar to one Microsoft struck with Novell last November, which sparked considerable outcry from some open source programmers, who make all of their code - and any software that includes their code - available without charge to users and other developers. Free software proponents argued that under the public license that governs Novell's code, if Microsoft gave up patent claims on code for some customers, it must be extended to all. In a May filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Novell noted that Microsoft could conceivably back out of the deal to avoid extending its patent covenants to a broader range of recipients. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
http://hosted.ap.org/dynamic/stories/W/WA_GAS_PRICES_WAOL-?SITE=CAANG&SECTION=HOME&TEMPLATE=DEFAULT Oakland Tribune (AP) Online Frosene on the Scene Place a Classified Ad Jun 4, 1:02 PM EDT AAA: Average price of gas in Washington drops to $3.35 BELLEVUE, Wash. (AP) -- The Triple-A auto club says the average price of a gallon of gasoline in Washington has dropped ten cents in two weeks from its record high to $3.35. The price is 19 cents higher than the national average, according to the Triple-A. Homes Virtual Tours More Classifieds from 21 NorCal Newspapers Visit sites within the ANG Newspapers network: San Mateo County Times ?1999-2003 by MediaNews Group, Inc. and ANG Newspapers
