http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/26/garden/26WEBtour.html	House tours-garden tours-show houses - New York Times For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Properties open to the public this year will include a modernist home overlooking the Hudson River in Garrison, N.Y., owned by Joe Chapman, the former companion of the designer Russel Wright. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: April 26, 2007 The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Skip to next paragraph Fifteen private gardens in brownstone Brooklyn. Visitors — dreamers, planners, would-be master builders and just plain oglers — can peer into rooms that have been painstakingly restored to period detail, fancifully concocted with the latest whimsy and stuffed with owners’ collections of artworks great and knickknacks small. They can gaze at the flowers, trees, mosses, grasses, ferns and fountains that have transformed backyards into seasonal Edens, smell the scent of blooms and feel the soft breezes. Here, starting in New York City, are all manner of house tours, show houses and garden tours. Unless otherwise noted, each is self-guided. MANHATTAN, THROUGH MAY 22 The 35th annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House is open in a 1904 Beaux-Arts mansion built by C.P.H. Gilbert, at 14 East 82nd Street. The participants include 20 designers; Monica Rich Kosann, a portrait photographer; and three painters. The show house is open Monday through Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays), and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. No children under 6. Tickets, to benefit the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, $30. More information: (718) 893-8600, extension 245 and BROOKLYN HEIGHTS, MAY 12 Five houses will be open from 1 to 5 p.m. in this neighborhood, which was designated New York’s first historic district in 1965. One is a former carriage house built in 1846 and converted to residential use 100 years later. It is decorated with Biedermeier, Asian and American antiques, and its garden features a brick folly surrounded by weeping cherry trees and rose bushes. A Renaissance Revival house overlooking the East River and the Manhattan skyline, and an 1833 wooden Federal house that has just been restored also will be featured. No children under 13 except infants in front packs. Reservations are recommended for tickets, $30, at (718) 858-9193 and . On the day of the tour only, tickets will be sold starting at 12:30 p.m. at 129 Pierrepont Street (near Clinton Street). PARK SLOPE, BROOKLYN, MAY 20 Eight houses will be open from noon to 5 p.m. during the 48th annual edition of the Park Slope Civic Council house tour, along with the St. Francis Xavier Church, a Gothic Revival building designed by Thomas Houghton, which will be open from 1:15 to 5 p.m. Guided tours will be offered in the church, which features a rose window and the only known stained glass window based on a Peter Paul Rubens painting. The houses on the tour include a 1909 neo-Italian Renaissance home decorated with African dowry objects and a collection of prints and paintings; a 1903 Arts and Crafts style house with Mission furniture, several chandeliers and an unusual split staircase; and an 1895 converted carriage house with an interior courtyard. No children under 10 except infants in front packs. Tickets are $25, at Eighth Avenue and Garfield Place. Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 832-8227 and HAMILTON HEIGHTS, MANHATTAN, JUNE 3 Ten to twelve houses will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. On June 2 at 11 a.m., there will be a guided walking tour in the neighborhood. Tickets for June 3, $25, at Hamilton Grange National Monument, Convent Avenue at 141st Street. Tickets for the guided tour on June 2 are $15. Information: (212) 281-4442 and PROSPECT LEFFERTS GARDENS, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 Eight houses and the garden of a local landscape designer will be open from noon to 5 p.m. The properties include a three-story 1904 brownstone which is decorated with the owners’ collection of 19th- and 20th-century Asian and English antiques, with front and backyard gardens, a greenhouse, large spa-like baths and a children’s playroom. There is also a contemporary renovation inside a 1906 house damaged by fire in the 1970s, with a slate bathroom suite featuring cascading water and a skylight, a stainless-steel kitchen and a music room. A 98-year-old restored limestone row house with its original parquet floors and plaster ceilings and moldings is accented by such salvaged artifacts as a marble back-splash from the Biltmore Hotel, and mahogany doors from the onetime AT&T building, which have been made into a desk. Infants in front packs only. Tickets, $25, at Mike’s International Restaurant, 552 Flatbush Avenue (Maple Street). Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 284-6210 or (718) 462-0024; by e-mail to PROSPECT HEIGHTS, FORT GREENE AND CLINTON HILL, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 At least 15 private gardens will be open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. for the 10th annual Brownstone Brooklyn Garden District’s Garden Walk. They include a children’s play garden; two “endangered” gardens, which are within the footprint of the proposed Atlantic Yards development; and a double garden surrounding a brick cottage. There will also be several community gardens, planted with vegetables, flowers, herbs and ornamentals. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place) in Prospect Heights; at the Brooklyn Academy of Music garden, Lafayette Avenue at St. Felix Street in Fort Greene; and at Tillie’s, DeKalb and Vanderbilt Avenues in Clinton Hill. Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277. There is no Web site. JACKSON HEIGHTS, QUEENS, JUNE 9 AND 10 On June 9, nine private gardens will be open from noon to 4 p.m. The gardens are found in the interior courtyards of the 1920’s apartment buildings that make up the neighborhood. They include the Chateau, Elm Court, Hampton Court and Hawthorne Court. The largest gardens feature classical designs, with sitting areas, fountains and paths with columns. There will also be a display of historic photographs and student art, and an illustrated lecture on the history of Jackson Heights at 10:45 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. On June 10, a guided neighborhood tour will be offered starting at noon. Tickets for the guided tour must be reserved or purchased in advance. Tickets for one tour, $10; both, $15. All events take place or begin at the Community Church, 35th Avenue at 82nd Street. Information: (718) 565-5344 and MOUNT MORRIS PARK, HARLEM, JUNE 10 A tour from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. will feature several historic brownstones as well as new apartments and several places of worship. There will also be a guided tour in Marcus Garvey Park at 11 a.m. and guided tours of the neighborhood with John Reddick, a historian, at noon and 2 p.m. Tickets, $30, Pelham Fritz Community Center, West 122nd Street and Mount Morris Park West. Advance tickets, $25; or tour events and a reception, $40, and information: (212) 369-4241 and FLATBUSH, BROOKLYN, JUNE 10 Ten to twelve houses will be open for the 31st annual Victorian Flatbush house tour, from 1 to 6 p.m. The Flatbush area is home to four historic districts, with tree-lined streets and Craftsman, Victorian, Colonial Revival, Tudor and Queen Anne houses on large lots, with wrap-around porches and interiors boasting carved woodwork and patterned floors. Tickets, $20, at Temple Beth Emeth, 83 Marlborough Road (near Church Avenue). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 859-3800 and PROSPECT HEIGHTS, BROOKLYN OCT. 14 Several residences, including Neo-Romanesque and Renaissance Revival townhouses from the second half of the 19th century, and at least one contemporary home, will be open from noon to 5 p.m. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277 and SEA CLIFF, MAY 20 A Sears kit house overlooking Hempstead Harbor is one of seven properties open from noon to 4 p.m. There will also be an 1880 Italianate house decorated with the owners’ collections of cranberry glass, bird prints and green Fire King glass objects. Tickets are $25. Advance purchase is suggested by May 13, by check with a self-addressed, self-stamped envelope, to Sea Cliff Landmarks Association, 19 Locust Place, Sea Cliff, N.Y. 11579. Tickets, if available on the day of the tour, at the village green at Sea Cliff and Central Avenues; (888) 216-6779. There is no Web site. LAUREL HOLLOW, COLD SPRING HARBOR, HUNTINGTON BAY AND CENTERPORT, MAY 23 A 1916 40-room mansion, with 14 fireplaces, ornate moldings and black walnut paneling in the living room, will be the centerpiece of a tour of five houses, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tickets, to benefit the Family Service League of Long Island, $55, at the Thatched Cottage, 445 East Main Street (near Washington Avenue) in Centerport. Lunch, by reservation, is available for $25. Advance tickets, $50, and information: (631) 427-3700, extension 255 and SOUTHAMPTON, JUNE 9 AND 10 The theme of this year’s symposium and tour is photography and the garden. The symposium, on June 9, from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., will be held at the , 25 Job’s Lane (Main Street). Five gardens on the East End, including one at the site of an 1850s hay barn that features dense perennial beds, native species and a wildflower field, will be open for a tour on June 10 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tickets: $175, $125 for members; (631) 283-2118, and BRIDGEHAMPTON, JULY 22 THROUGH SEPT. 3 There will be a show house to benefit Southampton Hospital. Open daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. No children under six. Tickets, $30. A preview party will take place on July 21 at 6 p.m. Tickets are $250. More information, closer to the event, at (631) 745-0004 or Westchester and Putnam Counties GARRISON AND COLD SPRING, JUNE 3 Eight houses will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., including a house designed by Russel Wright’s companion, Joe Chapman, which has stunning Hudson River views. Tickets, including a box lunch, in advance only: $125; (845)424-3812 and PLEASANTVILLE, JUNE 4 The tour offered by the Neuberger Museum of Art will focus on the Usonia community, a 100-acre development designed by for middle-class families. The day will start with a lecture and light breakfast at 8:30 a.m. at the museum, which is on the campus of Purchase College, part of the State University of New York , 735 Anderson Hill Road, in Purchase. It will be followed by a guided tour of five houses in Usonia, including the three wholly designed by Wright. No children under 16. Tickets, in advance only, are $120 ($100 for museum members): (914) 251-6114 and FISHKILL, JUNE 9 Six houses and churches rich with Revolutionary War history will be open for the Silver Ribbon Tour, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tickets: $35, at 401 Route 52 (south of Interstate 84). Advance tickets: $35 ($30 for members of the Dutchess County Historical Society); (845) 471-1630 and GOSHEN, JUNE 16 Six private gardens will be open from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., including one with bird feeders, birdhouses, and plants that attract birds; a small walled garden; and the property of an 1853 mansion designed by Calvert Vaux, which still has some of its original plantings and where the owners will host a sculpture exhibition. Tickets, $35, will include lunch, a music performance and a display by the Mid-Hudson Orchid Society. Information: (845) 294-6225, or Orange County Tourism, at (845) 291-2136. There is no Web site. MONTGOMERY, DEC. 9 At least eight houses will be open in the historic area of Montgomery, which was settled in the early 18th century, from 1 to 5 p.m. A shuttle bus will be offered in case of bad weather. Tickets, in advance, $10; day of tour, $12. Inquires for ticket purchase by e-mail only, after Oct. 1, to RUMSON, THROUGH MAY 31 Scothigh Farm, a Colonial Revival house built in 1926 as a summer estate, will be the site of a show house to benefit the Visiting Nurse Association of Central Jersey. No children under 12. Open Tuesday through Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at 142 Bingham Avenue (near Rumson Road). Admission: $35; $20 for 65 and older. Advance tickets: $25 before May 1; (732) 224-6791 and BOONTON, MAY 12 The Boonton Historical Society and Museum will sponsor a tour of 10 sites from 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The tour will include an 1898 house with original pocket doors, fireplaces, plaster moldings and stair railings, along with new porch, kitchen cabinetry and remodeled top-floor bathroom, and St. John’s Episcopal Church, an 1863 structure with three stained glass windows by . Tickets, $25, at the museum, 210 Main Street (Route 202). Information: (973) 316-0976 or by e-mail to . There is no Web site. Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. URBAN TACTICS; Garden City New Laws Crack Down on Urban Paul Bunyans LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; A Taste of Home, a Click and a Flight Away Trees Bind Angkor Temples in Perilous Grip Historic Buildings and Sites Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog In their latest post, Paul and Alison show their builder their dream home plans and get a dose of reality. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Photos, fine art, books and more. Looking for a job? Continuous coverage of business news. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Buy, sell or rent a home. What’s new in technology? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog In their latest post, Paul and Alison show their builder their dream home plans and get a dose of reality. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Post a job online today! What’s new on Broadway? Buy, sell or rent a home. Tell us your nursing story. Inspiration & lessons. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/26/garden/26WEBtour.html?ex=1335240000&en=828def00bda5df6d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House tours-garden tours-show houses - New York Times For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Properties open to the public this year will include a modernist home overlooking the Hudson River in Garrison, N.Y., owned by Joe Chapman, the former companion of the designer Russel Wright. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: April 26, 2007 The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Skip to next paragraph Fifteen private gardens in brownstone Brooklyn. Visitors — dreamers, planners, would-be master builders and just plain oglers — can peer into rooms that have been painstakingly restored to period detail, fancifully concocted with the latest whimsy and stuffed with owners’ collections of artworks great and knickknacks small. They can gaze at the flowers, trees, mosses, grasses, ferns and fountains that have transformed backyards into seasonal Edens, smell the scent of blooms and feel the soft breezes. Here, starting in New York City, are all manner of house tours, show houses and garden tours. Unless otherwise noted, each is self-guided. MANHATTAN, THROUGH MAY 22 The 35th annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House is open in a 1904 Beaux-Arts mansion built by C.P.H. Gilbert, at 14 East 82nd Street. The participants include 20 designers; Monica Rich Kosann, a portrait photographer; and three painters. The show house is open Monday through Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays), and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. No children under 6. Tickets, to benefit the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, $30. More information: (718) 893-8600, extension 245 and BROOKLYN HEIGHTS, MAY 12 Five houses will be open from 1 to 5 p.m. in this neighborhood, which was designated New York’s first historic district in 1965. One is a former carriage house built in 1846 and converted to residential use 100 years later. It is decorated with Biedermeier, Asian and American antiques, and its garden features a brick folly surrounded by weeping cherry trees and rose bushes. A Renaissance Revival house overlooking the East River and the Manhattan skyline, and an 1833 wooden Federal house that has just been restored also will be featured. No children under 13 except infants in front packs. Reservations are recommended for tickets, $30, at (718) 858-9193 and . On the day of the tour only, tickets will be sold starting at 12:30 p.m. at 129 Pierrepont Street (near Clinton Street). PARK SLOPE, BROOKLYN, MAY 20 Eight houses will be open from noon to 5 p.m. during the 48th annual edition of the Park Slope Civic Council house tour, along with the St. Francis Xavier Church, a Gothic Revival building designed by Thomas Houghton, which will be open from 1:15 to 5 p.m. Guided tours will be offered in the church, which features a rose window and the only known stained glass window based on a Peter Paul Rubens painting. The houses on the tour include a 1909 neo-Italian Renaissance home decorated with African dowry objects and a collection of prints and paintings; a 1903 Arts and Crafts style house with Mission furniture, several chandeliers and an unusual split staircase; and an 1895 converted carriage house with an interior courtyard. No children under 10 except infants in front packs. Tickets are $25, at Eighth Avenue and Garfield Place. Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 832-8227 and HAMILTON HEIGHTS, MANHATTAN, JUNE 3 Ten to twelve houses will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. On June 2 at 11 a.m., there will be a guided walking tour in the neighborhood. Tickets for June 3, $25, at Hamilton Grange National Monument, Convent Avenue at 141st Street. Tickets for the guided tour on June 2 are $15. Information: (212) 281-4442 and PROSPECT LEFFERTS GARDENS, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 Eight houses and the garden of a local landscape designer will be open from noon to 5 p.m. The properties include a three-story 1904 brownstone which is decorated with the owners’ collection of 19th- and 20th-century Asian and English antiques, with front and backyard gardens, a greenhouse, large spa-like baths and a children’s playroom. There is also a contemporary renovation inside a 1906 house damaged by fire in the 1970s, with a slate bathroom suite featuring cascading water and a skylight, a stainless-steel kitchen and a music room. A 98-year-old restored limestone row house with its original parquet floors and plaster ceilings and moldings is accented by such salvaged artifacts as a marble back-splash from the Biltmore Hotel, and mahogany doors from the onetime AT&T building, which have been made into a desk. Infants in front packs only. Tickets, $25, at Mike’s International Restaurant, 552 Flatbush Avenue (Maple Street). Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 284-6210 or (718) 462-0024; by e-mail to PROSPECT HEIGHTS, FORT GREENE AND CLINTON HILL, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 At least 15 private gardens will be open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. for the 10th annual Brownstone Brooklyn Garden District’s Garden Walk. They include a children’s play garden; two “endangered” gardens, which are within the footprint of the proposed Atlantic Yards development; and a double garden surrounding a brick cottage. There will also be several community gardens, planted with vegetables, flowers, herbs and ornamentals. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place) in Prospect Heights; at the Brooklyn Academy of Music garden, Lafayette Avenue at St. Felix Street in Fort Greene; and at Tillie’s, DeKalb and Vanderbilt Avenues in Clinton Hill. Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277. There is no Web site. JACKSON HEIGHTS, QUEENS, JUNE 9 AND 10 On June 9, nine private gardens will be open from noon to 4 p.m. The gardens are found in the interior courtyards of the 1920’s apartment buildings that make up the neighborhood. They include the Chateau, Elm Court, Hampton Court and Hawthorne Court. The largest gardens feature classical designs, with sitting areas, fountains and paths with columns. There will also be a display of historic photographs and student art, and an illustrated lecture on the history of Jackson Heights at 10:45 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. On June 10, a guided neighborhood tour will be offered starting at noon. Tickets for the guided tour must be reserved or purchased in advance. Tickets for one tour, $10; both, $15. All events take place or begin at the Community Church, 35th Avenue at 82nd Street. Information: (718) 565-5344 and MOUNT MORRIS PARK, HARLEM, JUNE 10 A tour from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. will feature several historic brownstones as well as new apartments and several places of worship. There will also be a guided tour in Marcus Garvey Park at 11 a.m. and guided tours of the neighborhood with John Reddick, a historian, at noon and 2 p.m. Tickets, $30, Pelham Fritz Community Center, West 122nd Street and Mount Morris Park West. Advance tickets, $25; or tour events and a reception, $40, and information: (212) 369-4241 and FLATBUSH, BROOKLYN, JUNE 10 Ten to twelve houses will be open for the 31st annual Victorian Flatbush house tour, from 1 to 6 p.m. The Flatbush area is home to four historic districts, with tree-lined streets and Craftsman, Victorian, Colonial Revival, Tudor and Queen Anne houses on large lots, with wrap-around porches and interiors boasting carved woodwork and patterned floors. Tickets, $20, at Temple Beth Emeth, 83 Marlborough Road (near Church Avenue). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 859-3800 and PROSPECT HEIGHTS, BROOKLYN OCT. 14 Several residences, including Neo-Romanesque and Renaissance Revival townhouses from the second half of the 19th century, and at least one contemporary home, will be open from noon to 5 p.m. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277 and SEA CLIFF, MAY 20 A Sears kit house overlooking Hempstead Harbor is one of seven properties open from noon to 4 p.m. There will also be an 1880 Italianate house decorated with the owners’ collections of cranberry glass, bird prints and green Fire King glass objects. Tickets are $25. Advance purchase is suggested by May 13, by check with a self-addressed, self-stamped envelope, to Sea Cliff Landmarks Association, 19 Locust Place, Sea Cliff, N.Y. 11579. Tickets, if available on the day of the tour, at the village green at Sea Cliff and Central Avenues; (888) 216-6779. There is no Web site. LAUREL HOLLOW, COLD SPRING HARBOR, HUNTINGTON BAY AND CENTERPORT, MAY 23 A 1916 40-room mansion, with 14 fireplaces, ornate moldings and black walnut paneling in the living room, will be the centerpiece of a tour of five houses, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tickets, to benefit the Family Service League of Long Island, $55, at the Thatched Cottage, 445 East Main Street (near Washington Avenue) in Centerport. Lunch, by reservation, is available for $25. Advance tickets, $50, and information: (631) 427-3700, extension 255 and SOUTHAMPTON, JUNE 9 AND 10 The theme of this year’s symposium and tour is photography and the garden. The symposium, on June 9, from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., will be held at the , 25 Job’s Lane (Main Street). Five gardens on the East End, including one at the site of an 1850s hay barn that features dense perennial beds, native species and a wildflower field, will be open for a tour on June 10 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tickets: $175, $125 for members; (631) 283-2118, and BRIDGEHAMPTON, JULY 22 THROUGH SEPT. 3 There will be a show house to benefit Southampton Hospital. Open daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. No children under six. Tickets, $30. A preview party will take place on July 21 at 6 p.m. Tickets are $250. More information, closer to the event, at (631) 745-0004 or Westchester and Putnam Counties GARRISON AND COLD SPRING, JUNE 3 Eight houses will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., including a house designed by Russel Wright’s companion, Joe Chapman, which has stunning Hudson River views. Tickets, including a box lunch, in advance only: $125; (845)424-3812 and PLEASANTVILLE, JUNE 4 The tour offered by the Neuberger Museum of Art will focus on the Usonia community, a 100-acre development designed by for middle-class families. The day will start with a lecture and light breakfast at 8:30 a.m. at the museum, which is on the campus of Purchase College, part of the State University of New York , 735 Anderson Hill Road, in Purchase. It will be followed by a guided tour of five houses in Usonia, including the three wholly designed by Wright. No children under 16. Tickets, in advance only, are $120 ($100 for museum members): (914) 251-6114 and FISHKILL, JUNE 9 Six houses and churches rich with Revolutionary War history will be open for the Silver Ribbon Tour, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tickets: $35, at 401 Route 52 (south of Interstate 84). Advance tickets: $35 ($30 for members of the Dutchess County Historical Society); (845) 471-1630 and GOSHEN, JUNE 16 Six private gardens will be open from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., including one with bird feeders, birdhouses, and plants that attract birds; a small walled garden; and the property of an 1853 mansion designed by Calvert Vaux, which still has some of its original plantings and where the owners will host a sculpture exhibition. Tickets, $35, will include lunch, a music performance and a display by the Mid-Hudson Orchid Society. Information: (845) 294-6225, or Orange County Tourism, at (845) 291-2136. There is no Web site. MONTGOMERY, DEC. 9 At least eight houses will be open in the historic area of Montgomery, which was settled in the early 18th century, from 1 to 5 p.m. A shuttle bus will be offered in case of bad weather. Tickets, in advance, $10; day of tour, $12. Inquires for ticket purchase by e-mail only, after Oct. 1, to RUMSON, THROUGH MAY 31 Scothigh Farm, a Colonial Revival house built in 1926 as a summer estate, will be the site of a show house to benefit the Visiting Nurse Association of Central Jersey. No children under 12. Open Tuesday through Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at 142 Bingham Avenue (near Rumson Road). Admission: $35; $20 for 65 and older. Advance tickets: $25 before May 1; (732) 224-6791 and BOONTON, MAY 12 The Boonton Historical Society and Museum will sponsor a tour of 10 sites from 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The tour will include an 1898 house with original pocket doors, fireplaces, plaster moldings and stair railings, along with new porch, kitchen cabinetry and remodeled top-floor bathroom, and St. John’s Episcopal Church, an 1863 structure with three stained glass windows by . Tickets, $25, at the museum, 210 Main Street (Route 202). Information: (973) 316-0976 or by e-mail to . There is no Web site. Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; Explore TimesSelect with a no-risk 14-day free trial. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. URBAN TACTICS; Garden City New Laws Crack Down on Urban Paul Bunyans LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; A Taste of Home, a Click and a Flight Away Trees Bind Angkor Temples in Perilous Grip Historic Buildings and Sites Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/26/garden/26WEBtour.html	House tours-garden tours-show houses - New York Times For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Properties open to the public this year will include a modernist home overlooking the Hudson River in Garrison, N.Y., owned by Joe Chapman, the former companion of the designer Russel Wright. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: April 26, 2007 The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Skip to next paragraph Fifteen private gardens in brownstone Brooklyn. Visitors — dreamers, planners, would-be master builders and just plain oglers — can peer into rooms that have been painstakingly restored to period detail, fancifully concocted with the latest whimsy and stuffed with owners’ collections of artworks great and knickknacks small. They can gaze at the flowers, trees, mosses, grasses, ferns and fountains that have transformed backyards into seasonal Edens, smell the scent of blooms and feel the soft breezes. Here, starting in New York City, are all manner of house tours, show houses and garden tours. Unless otherwise noted, each is self-guided. MANHATTAN, THROUGH MAY 22 The 35th annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House is open in a 1904 Beaux-Arts mansion built by C.P.H. Gilbert, at 14 East 82nd Street. The participants include 20 designers; Monica Rich Kosann, a portrait photographer; and three painters. The show house is open Monday through Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays), and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. No children under 6. Tickets, to benefit the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, $30. More information: (718) 893-8600, extension 245 and BROOKLYN HEIGHTS, MAY 12 Five houses will be open from 1 to 5 p.m. in this neighborhood, which was designated New York’s first historic district in 1965. One is a former carriage house built in 1846 and converted to residential use 100 years later. It is decorated with Biedermeier, Asian and American antiques, and its garden features a brick folly surrounded by weeping cherry trees and rose bushes. A Renaissance Revival house overlooking the East River and the Manhattan skyline, and an 1833 wooden Federal house that has just been restored also will be featured. No children under 13 except infants in front packs. Reservations are recommended for tickets, $30, at (718) 858-9193 and . On the day of the tour only, tickets will be sold starting at 12:30 p.m. at 129 Pierrepont Street (near Clinton Street). PARK SLOPE, BROOKLYN, MAY 20 Eight houses will be open from noon to 5 p.m. during the 48th annual edition of the Park Slope Civic Council house tour, along with the St. Francis Xavier Church, a Gothic Revival building designed by Thomas Houghton, which will be open from 1:15 to 5 p.m. Guided tours will be offered in the church, which features a rose window and the only known stained glass window based on a Peter Paul Rubens painting. The houses on the tour include a 1909 neo-Italian Renaissance home decorated with African dowry objects and a collection of prints and paintings; a 1903 Arts and Crafts style house with Mission furniture, several chandeliers and an unusual split staircase; and an 1895 converted carriage house with an interior courtyard. No children under 10 except infants in front packs. Tickets are $25, at Eighth Avenue and Garfield Place. Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 832-8227 and HAMILTON HEIGHTS, MANHATTAN, JUNE 3 Ten to twelve houses will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. On June 2 at 11 a.m., there will be a guided walking tour in the neighborhood. Tickets for June 3, $25, at Hamilton Grange National Monument, Convent Avenue at 141st Street. Tickets for the guided tour on June 2 are $15. Information: (212) 281-4442 and PROSPECT LEFFERTS GARDENS, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 Eight houses and the garden of a local landscape designer will be open from noon to 5 p.m. The properties include a three-story 1904 brownstone which is decorated with the owners’ collection of 19th- and 20th-century Asian and English antiques, with front and backyard gardens, a greenhouse, large spa-like baths and a children’s playroom. There is also a contemporary renovation inside a 1906 house damaged by fire in the 1970s, with a slate bathroom suite featuring cascading water and a skylight, a stainless-steel kitchen and a music room. A 98-year-old restored limestone row house with its original parquet floors and plaster ceilings and moldings is accented by such salvaged artifacts as a marble back-splash from the Biltmore Hotel, and mahogany doors from the onetime AT&T building, which have been made into a desk. Infants in front packs only. Tickets, $25, at Mike’s International Restaurant, 552 Flatbush Avenue (Maple Street). Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 284-6210 or (718) 462-0024; by e-mail to PROSPECT HEIGHTS, FORT GREENE AND CLINTON HILL, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 At least 15 private gardens will be open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. for the 10th annual Brownstone Brooklyn Garden District’s Garden Walk. They include a children’s play garden; two “endangered” gardens, which are within the footprint of the proposed Atlantic Yards development; and a double garden surrounding a brick cottage. There will also be several community gardens, planted with vegetables, flowers, herbs and ornamentals. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place) in Prospect Heights; at the Brooklyn Academy of Music garden, Lafayette Avenue at St. Felix Street in Fort Greene; and at Tillie’s, DeKalb and Vanderbilt Avenues in Clinton Hill. Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277. There is no Web site. JACKSON HEIGHTS, QUEENS, JUNE 9 AND 10 On June 9, nine private gardens will be open from noon to 4 p.m. The gardens are found in the interior courtyards of the 1920’s apartment buildings that make up the neighborhood. They include the Chateau, Elm Court, Hampton Court and Hawthorne Court. The largest gardens feature classical designs, with sitting areas, fountains and paths with columns. There will also be a display of historic photographs and student art, and an illustrated lecture on the history of Jackson Heights at 10:45 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. On June 10, a guided neighborhood tour will be offered starting at noon. Tickets for the guided tour must be reserved or purchased in advance. Tickets for one tour, $10; both, $15. All events take place or begin at the Community Church, 35th Avenue at 82nd Street. Information: (718) 565-5344 and MOUNT MORRIS PARK, HARLEM, JUNE 10 A tour from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. will feature several historic brownstones as well as new apartments and several places of worship. There will also be a guided tour in Marcus Garvey Park at 11 a.m. and guided tours of the neighborhood with John Reddick, a historian, at noon and 2 p.m. Tickets, $30, Pelham Fritz Community Center, West 122nd Street and Mount Morris Park West. Advance tickets, $25; or tour events and a reception, $40, and information: (212) 369-4241 and FLATBUSH, BROOKLYN, JUNE 10 Ten to twelve houses will be open for the 31st annual Victorian Flatbush house tour, from 1 to 6 p.m. The Flatbush area is home to four historic districts, with tree-lined streets and Craftsman, Victorian, Colonial Revival, Tudor and Queen Anne houses on large lots, with wrap-around porches and interiors boasting carved woodwork and patterned floors. Tickets, $20, at Temple Beth Emeth, 83 Marlborough Road (near Church Avenue). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 859-3800 and PROSPECT HEIGHTS, BROOKLYN OCT. 14 Several residences, including Neo-Romanesque and Renaissance Revival townhouses from the second half of the 19th century, and at least one contemporary home, will be open from noon to 5 p.m. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277 and SEA CLIFF, MAY 20 A Sears kit house overlooking Hempstead Harbor is one of seven properties open from noon to 4 p.m. There will also be an 1880 Italianate house decorated with the owners’ collections of cranberry glass, bird prints and green Fire King glass objects. Tickets are $25. Advance purchase is suggested by May 13, by check with a self-addressed, self-stamped envelope, to Sea Cliff Landmarks Association, 19 Locust Place, Sea Cliff, N.Y. 11579. Tickets, if available on the day of the tour, at the village green at Sea Cliff and Central Avenues; (888) 216-6779. There is no Web site. LAUREL HOLLOW, COLD SPRING HARBOR, HUNTINGTON BAY AND CENTERPORT, MAY 23 A 1916 40-room mansion, with 14 fireplaces, ornate moldings and black walnut paneling in the living room, will be the centerpiece of a tour of five houses, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tickets, to benefit the Family Service League of Long Island, $55, at the Thatched Cottage, 445 East Main Street (near Washington Avenue) in Centerport. Lunch, by reservation, is available for $25. Advance tickets, $50, and information: (631) 427-3700, extension 255 and SOUTHAMPTON, JUNE 9 AND 10 The theme of this year’s symposium and tour is photography and the garden. The symposium, on June 9, from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., will be held at the , 25 Job’s Lane (Main Street). Five gardens on the East End, including one at the site of an 1850s hay barn that features dense perennial beds, native species and a wildflower field, will be open for a tour on June 10 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tickets: $175, $125 for members; (631) 283-2118, and BRIDGEHAMPTON, JULY 22 THROUGH SEPT. 3 There will be a show house to benefit Southampton Hospital. Open daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. No children under six. Tickets, $30. A preview party will take place on July 21 at 6 p.m. Tickets are $250. More information, closer to the event, at (631) 745-0004 or Westchester and Putnam Counties GARRISON AND COLD SPRING, JUNE 3 Eight houses will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., including a house designed by Russel Wright’s companion, Joe Chapman, which has stunning Hudson River views. Tickets, including a box lunch, in advance only: $125; (845)424-3812 and PLEASANTVILLE, JUNE 4 The tour offered by the Neuberger Museum of Art will focus on the Usonia community, a 100-acre development designed by for middle-class families. The day will start with a lecture and light breakfast at 8:30 a.m. at the museum, which is on the campus of Purchase College, part of the State University of New York , 735 Anderson Hill Road, in Purchase. It will be followed by a guided tour of five houses in Usonia, including the three wholly designed by Wright. No children under 16. Tickets, in advance only, are $120 ($100 for museum members): (914) 251-6114 and FISHKILL, JUNE 9 Six houses and churches rich with Revolutionary War history will be open for the Silver Ribbon Tour, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tickets: $35, at 401 Route 52 (south of Interstate 84). Advance tickets: $35 ($30 for members of the Dutchess County Historical Society); (845) 471-1630 and GOSHEN, JUNE 16 Six private gardens will be open from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., including one with bird feeders, birdhouses, and plants that attract birds; a small walled garden; and the property of an 1853 mansion designed by Calvert Vaux, which still has some of its original plantings and where the owners will host a sculpture exhibition. Tickets, $35, will include lunch, a music performance and a display by the Mid-Hudson Orchid Society. Information: (845) 294-6225, or Orange County Tourism, at (845) 291-2136. There is no Web site. MONTGOMERY, DEC. 9 At least eight houses will be open in the historic area of Montgomery, which was settled in the early 18th century, from 1 to 5 p.m. A shuttle bus will be offered in case of bad weather. Tickets, in advance, $10; day of tour, $12. Inquires for ticket purchase by e-mail only, after Oct. 1, to RUMSON, THROUGH MAY 31 Scothigh Farm, a Colonial Revival house built in 1926 as a summer estate, will be the site of a show house to benefit the Visiting Nurse Association of Central Jersey. No children under 12. Open Tuesday through Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at 142 Bingham Avenue (near Rumson Road). Admission: $35; $20 for 65 and older. Advance tickets: $25 before May 1; (732) 224-6791 and BOONTON, MAY 12 The Boonton Historical Society and Museum will sponsor a tour of 10 sites from 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The tour will include an 1898 house with original pocket doors, fireplaces, plaster moldings and stair railings, along with new porch, kitchen cabinetry and remodeled top-floor bathroom, and St. John’s Episcopal Church, an 1863 structure with three stained glass windows by . Tickets, $25, at the museum, 210 Main Street (Route 202). Information: (973) 316-0976 or by e-mail to . There is no Web site. Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. URBAN TACTICS; Garden City New Laws Crack Down on Urban Paul Bunyans LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; A Taste of Home, a Click and a Flight Away Trees Bind Angkor Temples in Perilous Grip Historic Buildings and Sites Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog In their latest post, Paul and Alison show their builder their dream home plans and get a dose of reality. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or rent a home. Buy, sell or research a car. What’s new in technology? Browse movie reviews from 1913. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog In their latest post, Paul and Alison show their builder their dream home plans and get a dose of reality. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! What’s new on Broadway? Looking for a job? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Plan what to see, eat and do. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new in technology? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/04/26/garden/26WEBtour.html?ex=1335240000&en=828def00bda5df6d&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House tours-garden tours-show houses - New York Times For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Properties open to the public this year will include a modernist home overlooking the Hudson River in Garrison, N.Y., owned by Joe Chapman, the former companion of the designer Russel Wright. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: April 26, 2007 The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Skip to next paragraph Fifteen private gardens in brownstone Brooklyn. Visitors — dreamers, planners, would-be master builders and just plain oglers — can peer into rooms that have been painstakingly restored to period detail, fancifully concocted with the latest whimsy and stuffed with owners’ collections of artworks great and knickknacks small. They can gaze at the flowers, trees, mosses, grasses, ferns and fountains that have transformed backyards into seasonal Edens, smell the scent of blooms and feel the soft breezes. Here, starting in New York City, are all manner of house tours, show houses and garden tours. Unless otherwise noted, each is self-guided. MANHATTAN, THROUGH MAY 22 The 35th annual Kips Bay Decorator Show House is open in a 1904 Beaux-Arts mansion built by C.P.H. Gilbert, at 14 East 82nd Street. The participants include 20 designers; Monica Rich Kosann, a portrait photographer; and three painters. The show house is open Monday through Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays), and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. No children under 6. Tickets, to benefit the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, $30. More information: (718) 893-8600, extension 245 and BROOKLYN HEIGHTS, MAY 12 Five houses will be open from 1 to 5 p.m. in this neighborhood, which was designated New York’s first historic district in 1965. One is a former carriage house built in 1846 and converted to residential use 100 years later. It is decorated with Biedermeier, Asian and American antiques, and its garden features a brick folly surrounded by weeping cherry trees and rose bushes. A Renaissance Revival house overlooking the East River and the Manhattan skyline, and an 1833 wooden Federal house that has just been restored also will be featured. No children under 13 except infants in front packs. Reservations are recommended for tickets, $30, at (718) 858-9193 and . On the day of the tour only, tickets will be sold starting at 12:30 p.m. at 129 Pierrepont Street (near Clinton Street). PARK SLOPE, BROOKLYN, MAY 20 Eight houses will be open from noon to 5 p.m. during the 48th annual edition of the Park Slope Civic Council house tour, along with the St. Francis Xavier Church, a Gothic Revival building designed by Thomas Houghton, which will be open from 1:15 to 5 p.m. Guided tours will be offered in the church, which features a rose window and the only known stained glass window based on a Peter Paul Rubens painting. The houses on the tour include a 1909 neo-Italian Renaissance home decorated with African dowry objects and a collection of prints and paintings; a 1903 Arts and Crafts style house with Mission furniture, several chandeliers and an unusual split staircase; and an 1895 converted carriage house with an interior courtyard. No children under 10 except infants in front packs. Tickets are $25, at Eighth Avenue and Garfield Place. Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 832-8227 and HAMILTON HEIGHTS, MANHATTAN, JUNE 3 Ten to twelve houses will be open from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. On June 2 at 11 a.m., there will be a guided walking tour in the neighborhood. Tickets for June 3, $25, at Hamilton Grange National Monument, Convent Avenue at 141st Street. Tickets for the guided tour on June 2 are $15. Information: (212) 281-4442 and PROSPECT LEFFERTS GARDENS, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 Eight houses and the garden of a local landscape designer will be open from noon to 5 p.m. The properties include a three-story 1904 brownstone which is decorated with the owners’ collection of 19th- and 20th-century Asian and English antiques, with front and backyard gardens, a greenhouse, large spa-like baths and a children’s playroom. There is also a contemporary renovation inside a 1906 house damaged by fire in the 1970s, with a slate bathroom suite featuring cascading water and a skylight, a stainless-steel kitchen and a music room. A 98-year-old restored limestone row house with its original parquet floors and plaster ceilings and moldings is accented by such salvaged artifacts as a marble back-splash from the Biltmore Hotel, and mahogany doors from the onetime AT&T building, which have been made into a desk. Infants in front packs only. Tickets, $25, at Mike’s International Restaurant, 552 Flatbush Avenue (Maple Street). Advance tickets, $20, and information: (718) 284-6210 or (718) 462-0024; by e-mail to PROSPECT HEIGHTS, FORT GREENE AND CLINTON HILL, BROOKLYN, JUNE 3 At least 15 private gardens will be open from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. for the 10th annual Brownstone Brooklyn Garden District’s Garden Walk. They include a children’s play garden; two “endangered” gardens, which are within the footprint of the proposed Atlantic Yards development; and a double garden surrounding a brick cottage. There will also be several community gardens, planted with vegetables, flowers, herbs and ornamentals. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place) in Prospect Heights; at the Brooklyn Academy of Music garden, Lafayette Avenue at St. Felix Street in Fort Greene; and at Tillie’s, DeKalb and Vanderbilt Avenues in Clinton Hill. Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277. There is no Web site. JACKSON HEIGHTS, QUEENS, JUNE 9 AND 10 On June 9, nine private gardens will be open from noon to 4 p.m. The gardens are found in the interior courtyards of the 1920’s apartment buildings that make up the neighborhood. They include the Chateau, Elm Court, Hampton Court and Hawthorne Court. The largest gardens feature classical designs, with sitting areas, fountains and paths with columns. There will also be a display of historic photographs and student art, and an illustrated lecture on the history of Jackson Heights at 10:45 a.m. and 12:15 p.m. On June 10, a guided neighborhood tour will be offered starting at noon. Tickets for the guided tour must be reserved or purchased in advance. Tickets for one tour, $10; both, $15. All events take place or begin at the Community Church, 35th Avenue at 82nd Street. Information: (718) 565-5344 and MOUNT MORRIS PARK, HARLEM, JUNE 10 A tour from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. will feature several historic brownstones as well as new apartments and several places of worship. There will also be a guided tour in Marcus Garvey Park at 11 a.m. and guided tours of the neighborhood with John Reddick, a historian, at noon and 2 p.m. Tickets, $30, Pelham Fritz Community Center, West 122nd Street and Mount Morris Park West. Advance tickets, $25; or tour events and a reception, $40, and information: (212) 369-4241 and FLATBUSH, BROOKLYN, JUNE 10 Ten to twelve houses will be open for the 31st annual Victorian Flatbush house tour, from 1 to 6 p.m. The Flatbush area is home to four historic districts, with tree-lined streets and Craftsman, Victorian, Colonial Revival, Tudor and Queen Anne houses on large lots, with wrap-around porches and interiors boasting carved woodwork and patterned floors. Tickets, $20, at Temple Beth Emeth, 83 Marlborough Road (near Church Avenue). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 859-3800 and PROSPECT HEIGHTS, BROOKLYN OCT. 14 Several residences, including Neo-Romanesque and Renaissance Revival townhouses from the second half of the 19th century, and at least one contemporary home, will be open from noon to 5 p.m. Tickets, $20, at the Forest Floor, 659 Vanderbilt Avenue (Prospect Place). Advance tickets, $15, and information: (718) 707-1277 and SEA CLIFF, MAY 20 A Sears kit house overlooking Hempstead Harbor is one of seven properties open from noon to 4 p.m. There will also be an 1880 Italianate house decorated with the owners’ collections of cranberry glass, bird prints and green Fire King glass objects. Tickets are $25. Advance purchase is suggested by May 13, by check with a self-addressed, self-stamped envelope, to Sea Cliff Landmarks Association, 19 Locust Place, Sea Cliff, N.Y. 11579. Tickets, if available on the day of the tour, at the village green at Sea Cliff and Central Avenues; (888) 216-6779. There is no Web site. LAUREL HOLLOW, COLD SPRING HARBOR, HUNTINGTON BAY AND CENTERPORT, MAY 23 A 1916 40-room mansion, with 14 fireplaces, ornate moldings and black walnut paneling in the living room, will be the centerpiece of a tour of five houses, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tickets, to benefit the Family Service League of Long Island, $55, at the Thatched Cottage, 445 East Main Street (near Washington Avenue) in Centerport. Lunch, by reservation, is available for $25. Advance tickets, $50, and information: (631) 427-3700, extension 255 and SOUTHAMPTON, JUNE 9 AND 10 The theme of this year’s symposium and tour is photography and the garden. The symposium, on June 9, from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., will be held at the , 25 Job’s Lane (Main Street). Five gardens on the East End, including one at the site of an 1850s hay barn that features dense perennial beds, native species and a wildflower field, will be open for a tour on June 10 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. Tickets: $175, $125 for members; (631) 283-2118, and BRIDGEHAMPTON, JULY 22 THROUGH SEPT. 3 There will be a show house to benefit Southampton Hospital. Open daily, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. No children under six. Tickets, $30. A preview party will take place on July 21 at 6 p.m. Tickets are $250. More information, closer to the event, at (631) 745-0004 or Westchester and Putnam Counties GARRISON AND COLD SPRING, JUNE 3 Eight houses will be open from 11:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., including a house designed by Russel Wright’s companion, Joe Chapman, which has stunning Hudson River views. Tickets, including a box lunch, in advance only: $125; (845)424-3812 and PLEASANTVILLE, JUNE 4 The tour offered by the Neuberger Museum of Art will focus on the Usonia community, a 100-acre development designed by for middle-class families. The day will start with a lecture and light breakfast at 8:30 a.m. at the museum, which is on the campus of Purchase College, part of the State University of New York , 735 Anderson Hill Road, in Purchase. It will be followed by a guided tour of five houses in Usonia, including the three wholly designed by Wright. No children under 16. Tickets, in advance only, are $120 ($100 for museum members): (914) 251-6114 and FISHKILL, JUNE 9 Six houses and churches rich with Revolutionary War history will be open for the Silver Ribbon Tour, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tickets: $35, at 401 Route 52 (south of Interstate 84). Advance tickets: $35 ($30 for members of the Dutchess County Historical Society); (845) 471-1630 and GOSHEN, JUNE 16 Six private gardens will be open from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m., including one with bird feeders, birdhouses, and plants that attract birds; a small walled garden; and the property of an 1853 mansion designed by Calvert Vaux, which still has some of its original plantings and where the owners will host a sculpture exhibition. Tickets, $35, will include lunch, a music performance and a display by the Mid-Hudson Orchid Society. Information: (845) 294-6225, or Orange County Tourism, at (845) 291-2136. There is no Web site. MONTGOMERY, DEC. 9 At least eight houses will be open in the historic area of Montgomery, which was settled in the early 18th century, from 1 to 5 p.m. A shuttle bus will be offered in case of bad weather. Tickets, in advance, $10; day of tour, $12. Inquires for ticket purchase by e-mail only, after Oct. 1, to RUMSON, THROUGH MAY 31 Scothigh Farm, a Colonial Revival house built in 1926 as a summer estate, will be the site of a show house to benefit the Visiting Nurse Association of Central Jersey. No children under 12. Open Tuesday through Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., at 142 Bingham Avenue (near Rumson Road). Admission: $35; $20 for 65 and older. Advance tickets: $25 before May 1; (732) 224-6791 and BOONTON, MAY 12 The Boonton Historical Society and Museum will sponsor a tour of 10 sites from 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The tour will include an 1898 house with original pocket doors, fireplaces, plaster moldings and stair railings, along with new porch, kitchen cabinetry and remodeled top-floor bathroom, and St. John’s Episcopal Church, an 1863 structure with three stained glass windows by . Tickets, $25, at the museum, 210 Main Street (Route 202). Information: (973) 316-0976 or by e-mail to . There is no Web site. Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. URBAN TACTICS; Garden City New Laws Crack Down on Urban Paul Bunyans LONG ISLAND JOURNAL; A Taste of Home, a Click and a Flight Away Trees Bind Angkor Temples in Perilous Grip Historic Buildings and Sites Next Article in Home & Garden (6 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard Narcotic Maker Guilty of Deceit Over Marketing Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Movie Review | '28 Weeks Later': The Satire Is Biting, and So Are the Zombies Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Prenatal Test Puts Down Syndrome in Hard Focus Chevron Seen Settling Case on Iraq Oil President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Kansas Tornado Renews Debate on Guard at War Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds 6 Men Arrested in a Terror Plot Against Ft. Dix A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » A complete guide to summer movies, including critics' picks and a release schedule 5 actors to watch this summer Up close with indie star Parker Posey "The Simpsons Movie" trailer Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Monterey, Where Kids and Sea Lions Play Vendors’ Removal Restores a Gem In the Big House ... Just Visiting Haberman: The Right to a Defense The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog With their potential house plans in hand, Paul and Alison weigh the good and bad. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Which gadget is getting all the buzz? What’s new on Broadway? Browse movie reviews from 1913. Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog With their potential house plans in hand, Paul and Alison weigh the good and bad. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Which gadget is getting all the buzz? What’s new on Broadway? Browse movie reviews from 1913. Buy, sell or rent a home. Photos, fine art, books and more. Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog With their potential house plans in hand, Paul and Alison weigh the good and bad. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! What’s new in technology? Get the latest business news Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or research a car. What’s new on Broadway? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog With their potential house plans in hand, Paul and Alison weigh the good and bad. Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Faster Fashion, Cheaper Chic A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills Critic’s Notebook: In Los Angeles, the Accidental Pizza Maker Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now Tribute: The Woman No Hat Could Tame Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! What’s new in technology? Get the latest business news Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or research a car. What’s new on Broadway? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Iwo Jima Flag-Raising Sequence - Framed N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Iwo Jima Flag-Raising Sequence - Framed N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Highway Debris, Long an Eyesore, Grows as Hazard New York City Renters Cope With Squeeze Psychiatrists, Children and Drug Industry&#8217;s Role The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Genes Take Charge, and Diets Fall by the Wayside Fisher Is a Father First, and a Jazz Player Later Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Go to Complete List » Giuliani to Support Abortion Rights G.O.P. Moderates Warn Bush Iraq Must Show Gains Bush in Accord With Democrats on Trade Deals President Open to Benchmarks in Iraq Measure Gonzales Seems Confident He Will Stay, Officials Say Facebook to Offer Free Classifieds Role of F.B.I. Informer Draws Praise and Questions On Carrier in Gulf, Cheney Issues Warning to Iran Romney Works to Put Skeptics' Doubts to Rest Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » The new Broadway show Legally Blonde delivers "a nonstop sugar rush" Angela Lansbury in "Deuce" A trashy Tupperware lady hits the stage David Mamet to return to the theater of politics Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; No One Says ‘9/11.’ No One Needs To. Father and Son, Just Two More Soccer Fans The Rings of Giuliani The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Looking for a job? What’s new in technology? Get the latest business news What’s new on Broadway? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Looking for a job? What’s new in technology? Get the latest business news What’s new on Broadway? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new on Broadway? Looking for a job? Buy, sell or research a car. Buy, sell or rent a home. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Continuous coverage of business news. Photos, fine art, books and more. What’s new on Broadway? Looking for a job? Buy, sell or research a car. Buy, sell or rent a home. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. RETIRE ON LESS THAN YOU THINK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. RETIRE ON LESS THAN YOU THINK N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Development Rises on St. Louis Area Flood Plains Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Get home delivery of The Times for as low as $2.99 a week — that’s 50% off. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Buy, sell or rent a home. Looking to buy a new car? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Continuous coverage of business news. Post a job online today! Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Buy, sell or rent a home. Looking to buy a new car? Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Continuous coverage of business news. Post a job online today! Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Buy, sell or research a car. Photos, fine art, books and more. Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! Buy, sell or research a car. Photos, fine art, books and more. Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new on Broadway? What’s new in technology? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. Football's Greatest Games Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Want to save this article?  Download the Times File Toolbar - get it now with TimesSelect. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. Football's Greatest Games Commemorative N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html?ex=1336449600&en=04a178ced821ab47&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10room.html?ex=1336449600&en=b1a004ae9a214db1&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Room to Improve - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Simplicity goes a long way toward making a bathroom feel as if it is from another time. The most difficult part of the job may be undoing old decorating. Before you bring in new fittings, fixtures or furniture, take stock of what you have and remove ill-conceived flourishes. Vinyl flooring or carpet? Rip it out. Jaunty wallpaper? Tear it off. Skip to next paragraph If the tile is white, glossy and clean, you should leave it alone; that is the look you want. If it is colored or printed with images of seahorses, you have little choice but to replace it. As Barbara Sallick, co-founder and senior vice president of design at Waterworks, the high-end bathroom fixtures company, points out, “There are only a few things you can do if you’re stuck with a bubblegum-pink bathroom.” Once you have a relatively clean canvas, you can shift your attention to fixtures and fittings. The most important area is the sink. If you do nothing else, Ms. Sallick said, paint the base of the existing vanity white, replace the counter with a marble slab and install a new basin and fittings. If you have a run-of-the-mill metal medicine cabinet, she said, replace it with a wood unit like the Traditional Medicine Cabinet ($815 to $865) from Waterworks ( ) or the Cartwright Medicine Cabinet ($229 to $329) from Restoration Hardware ( Robin Standefer and Stephen Alesch, the principals of Roman and Williams ( ), a New York design firm, suggested replacing the old vanity unit with a washstand that leaves the plumbing exposed. They installed such a washstand for a client in Los Angeles, with a custom Industrial Base, above, from Urban Archaeology (starting at $1,670 at Where to put items you were storing under the sink? Ms. Standefer and Mr. Alesch suggested building shallow cabinets into the wall. For their client, they created mirrored units above the sinks, surrounded by floor-to-ceiling storage. Ms. Standefer recommended using a high-gloss paint, Hollandlac Brilliant from Fine Paints of Europe ($95 for 2 ½ liters or 2/3 gallon, ), in a cream color on all the woodwork to make it look “instantly sparkly, rich, shiny and washable.” That is important, Mr. Alesch said, because “old-school bathrooms look like you could scrub them down with a bucket of bleach and a huge brush.” When you are choosing hardware, don’t be afraid to buy taps that are separate from the faucet. The one-piece units that many remodelers use, Ms. Sallick said, “are so awful, and so telltale inexpensive.” Use a three-piece set instead, like the ones from the Waterworks Astoria line (from $985). It might also be worth visiting P. E. Guerin (212-243-5270 or ) at 23 Jane Street in Manhattan, one of the oldest decorative hardware manufacturers in the country. Prices for classic stock fittings, like the Beaded Group, start at about $2,000, and custom work is available as well. Glass dispensers like Restoration Hardware’s Grafton Clear Accessories ($39 to $49) and Sabon’s bath products ( ), which come in attractive glass containers, will help create a sense of luxury. Also, make sure your towels are inviting. “Ultimately, there is nothing as luxurious and old-world as beautiful towels hung really neatly on the towel bars,” Ms. Sallick said. Questions about décor may be sent by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. PERSONAL HEALTH; A Simple Need, All Too Often Unmet The Year Without Toilet Paper Coming to Madison Square Park: Relief at a Quarter a Flush POSSESSED; Bathroom Reading, On the Wall Next Article in Home & Garden (4 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10garden.html?ex=1336449600&en=3cfa6d3aadd89371&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad - New York Times It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 IF you love fresh greens, there is no reason not to grow them yourself, even if you have only a tiny terrace or handkerchief lawn. Skip to next paragraph Matt Roth for The New York Times Jon Traunfeld built a portable salad box so plants with shallow roots, like arugula, could be grown in a small yard or balcony. Matt Roth for The New York Times When Jon Traunfeld, a regional specialist for the Cooperative Extension, showed me his homemade salad table, I wanted one, and I wanted to put it right outside my kitchen door. It has a whole different appeal — less work! proximity! — than my big vegetable garden. Essentially, it is a garden on wheels that you can move around, into sun or shade, a big benefit when the sun gets too hot for spinach. It’s waist-high, so people with creaky knees or bad backs can just stand there and pick a few leaves for dinner. And it’s a cinch to water and weed (not like that jungle I call my kitchen garden.) “It also means the groundhogs and the rabbits aren’t going to bother you,” Mr. Traunfeld said, standing by his leafy table, which sits on a terrace at the extension service’s Home and Garden Information Center in Ellicott City, Md. “Though, we have two deer trapped inside our fence. If they find this, we’re sunk.” The salad table is basically a 3-inch-deep, 11-square-foot planting box on legs. It has a hardware-cloth bottom, lined with window screening, so that water can drain but soil mix stays put. The table can be lifted by two people; better yet, if you put casters on the legs it can be rolled. Mr. Traunfeld invented his table about a year and a half ago, after seeing something similar at an organic farm in Virginia. He has long understood the joys of fresh greens: when it’s too cold outside, he grows them under fluorescent lights in his basement. He has been taking his salad table on the road to schools and community groups to show how easy it is to grow nutritious food right outside the door. Last year he grew greens in full sunlight during spring and fall. In the heat of the summer he pulled the tables back into the shade. Try doing that with your vegetable garden. “Shade isn’t a bad thing for greens, especially in the summer,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “They don’t really need direct sunlight.” In fact, in the heat of August you can grow lettuces and other salad greens in full shade. Just push that table back into the light come September. Lettuces, arugula, bok choy, mustards and many other greens are all shallow-rooted vegetables that can thrive, believe it or not, in three inches of potting soil, especially if it’s enriched with compost. Mr. Traunfeld plants seeds of Russian kale, mizuna (a tangy Japanese green) and colorful lettuces like speckled trout, whose chartreuse leaves are splotched with maroon, and merlot, a ruffled red. Heat-resistant varieties, like oakleaf, deer tongue and Jericho, a romaine developed in Israel, are especially suited to a shallow box. He is also growing purslane and amaranth, as well as basil and parsley; anything, in other words, that grows fast and easily in shallow soil. The greens sprout quickly in such loose soil, and will no doubt need to be thinned, in which case those little leaves may just be rinsed and tossed into a salad. As leaves mature, Mr. Traunfeld cuts them low to the base, then lets them grow again for a second cutting — the cut-and-come-again method — in a few weeks. “You can only do that twice though, and it’s time to take them out,” Mr. Traunfeld said. “All of these plants have a life cycle, so after 60 or 70 days, they’re just going to get bitter.” He fertilizes every two weeks with a liquid fertilizer, or relies on a slow-release fertilizer like Osmocote in the planting mix. Although his planting box is large, a small one could be placed just about anywhere, including a narrow apartment balcony. When I commented on how beautifully simple all this was, and wondered why no one had thought of this before, Mr. Traunfeld just laughed. “Every time I teach this workshop, somebody says, my grandmother used to take old drawers out of chests that were going to get junked, and she grew plants, either spring onions or salad greens, in a drawer,” he said. “So it’s nothing new. We’re just re-packaging it.” Mr. Traunfeld is also recycling another ubiquitous item: the five-gallon white plastic bucket used for bulk food, which bakeries, delis and restaurants are happy to give away. Instead of just drilling holes in the bottom and filling with compost and potting soil — perfect for tomato plants with deep roots — Mr. Traunfeld turns them into self-watering containers. It’s not complicated; just a series of trimming this, and sawing that, and drilling holes here and there. Directions for the self-watering container can be found at , under online publications, on container vegetable gardening. For those who want to try his movable garden, the table and trays are simple to make out of untreated framing lumber, a bit of wire mesh and window screening, and some nails, wood screws and staples. Find a handsaw, hammer and drill and you’re all set. Directions can be found at hgic.umd.edu, under online publications, on growing greens with salad tables and salad boxes. The table costs about $35 to make; the tray, $8. Mr. Traunfeld is finding that these tables are not only inspiring people to grow fresh food; they are also generating an interest in basic carpentry skills. Since soil is too heavy and dense for these salad tables, it’s better to use a lightweight, fertile mix, in which seeds can easily germinate. Mr. Traunfeld suggested half compost, half soilless mix. But make sure both are of a good quality. You could also use pure compost, if you make it yourself, or have a reliable source. Soilless mix dries quickly in the sun; you may have to water as often as twice a day. If you want more texture in your salad, space plants about three to four inches apart, he advised. This is a good method for mustard greens, collards and chard. “Then the mid-ribs develop and you get a little more crunch in your salad,” he said. And you can just pick individual leaves, rather than cutting little soft ones with scissors. These crunchy, bigger leaves are also less likely to wilt when tossed with an acid dressing made with vinegar or lemon. Hand me the olive oil, please. Or a hammer, so that I can start on one of these tables. Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. WEEKEND IN NEW YORK | PUBLIC GARDENS; Stop and Smell the Barrenwort CENTRAL PARK; Something&#8217;s Up With the Violets Feeling Warmth, Subtropical Plants Move North Next Article in Home & Garden (3 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Post a job online today! Which gadget is getting all the buzz? Buy, sell or rent a home. Find a world of reasons to go. What’s new on Broadway? Photos, fine art, books and more. The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10qna.html	Garden Q.&A. - New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Make that all over the Northeast and beyond, where winter burn is affecting evergreens including rhododendrons, hollies and boxwoods. Last winter, warmth that lasted until January prevented plants from going dormant and increased water needs. Then the thirsty, tender plants were abruptly hit by fierce cold. Unprotected ground froze quickly, so no more water could penetrate. Leaves further dried by sun and wind turned brown. The branches are probably healthy, so prune only as needed for fullness and flowering. Your rhododendrons may also have shoot blight or dieback, said Bradley H. Roeller, manager of grounds and display gardens at the Institute of Ecosystem Studies in Millbrook, N.Y. Winter burn hits mostly the outer foliage, and although the leaves are brown they look otherwise normal, Mr. Roeller said. But if entire branches have deformed brown leaves, even deep within the plant, suspect contagious disease. Wait for a dry, windless day so spores do not spread, he advised. Then prune off all diseased branches, dipping the pruners in isopropyl alcohol to sterilize them between cuts. Can Neem Do It All? I keep hearing that neem is an organic gardener’s cure-all, deadly to pests and diseases but harmless to everything else. Can this be true? No. But it is not far off. Many foliage feeders are repelled by products derived from the tropical neem tree, and those eating neem-covered leaves often lose appetite and starve. Most of neem’s pesticidal punch comes from the compound azadirachtin, which disrupts insects’ growth as well as dampening their appetite. It can also be a fungicide. Used as directed, neem is harmless to mammals and birds, and little danger to beneficial insects. But it is bad for fish. And it usually requires frequent reapplication: the gardener must be an active partner for neem to deserve its sterling reputation. Sources for neem include Peaceful Valley Farm and Garden Supply, (888) 784-1722 or , and Extremely Green Gardening Company, Address questions by e-mail to . Unpublished questions cannot be answered individually. Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Polly Hill Is Dead at 100; Tested Hardiness of Plants IN THE GARDEN; Must Tulips Wither as the Climate Changes? IN THE GARDEN; A Tree-Hugger Shows Her Affection With a Saw Next Article in Home & Garden (5 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10white.html?ex=1336449600&en=8b07f74bca1fad40&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat - New York Times At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat From “Monsters,” by Charlie White (powerHouse Books, 2007) Charlie White documents existential dread; he recently lost his New York gallery and underwent heart surgery. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 Skip to next paragraph Joshua White for The New York Times Mr. White with Stephanie Ford. LATE in the fall of 2006 Charlie White, a 34-year-old photographer and fantasist whose allegorical images are created, like films, with elaborate sets and casts, changed houses, was let go by his gallery of 11 years and had open-heart surgery to replace the pig’s valve that had been keeping him alive since his last open heart surgery at age 5. “It was a horrible year,” Mr. White said recently. It was a clear, eucalyptus-scented Saturday morning in April, and those disruptive events seemed to have left no traces in his highly ordered, extremely tidy new house, which is stuck to the side of a silty, steep hill in the vertiginous and vaguely bohemian Silver Lake neighborhood. (Mr. White did offer to show this reporter his scar, an invitation she hastily declined.) Mr. White and Stephanie Ford, an editor and fiction writer who has been Mr. White’s girlfriend for 10 years, moved into the immaculate little 1930s bungalow in late October, along with their two dachshunds, Ivan and Ardley. Muppets and humanoids run amok in his photographs, but it is hard to imagine the very precise and preternaturally energetic Mr. White in the midst of any sort of muddle or mess. There were no rafts of paper — indeed, there was not much of anything — on the horizontal surfaces here. He’ll tell you (confidently) that he’s an anxious guy, and therefore a neat freak. Houses and photography sets seem to work better, he said, if “I exert a system of precision.” Ms. Ford, 33, said she is by nature a piler and stacker but has learned to follow what she described good-naturedly as “the Charlie Code.” The kitchen seemed unsullied by human touch, until Mr. White opened the white vintage cabinets, where drinking glasses were a small, tight army of irregulars, no two glasses the same, no pairs or sets allowed. The spice cabinet, whose contents Mr. White likes to realign on a regular basis, was surgically neat. “It is tidy,” Mr. White said. “It could be tidier.” “I like a system,” he said again, and then went on to explain about the mail. Ms. Ford is the designated mail picker-upper and handler because, he said, “Stephanie has a good relationship with mail.” “It makes me anxious,” he continued. “What if something bad comes in the mail?” The arrival of bad things — or the answering of the question “what if?” in the most fantastic and sometimes the most horrifying manner — is the story told by Mr. White’s photographs, the most recent of them collected in “Monsters,” to be published next month by powerHouse Books. One image, titled “Jody,” is a gleaming portrait of a young girl lighted with the flat glare of a pornographic film. Her skin is waxy-shiny, and there’s a small and very straight cut on her right cheek. The narrative the image suggests is a ghastly one, but the picture is simply gorgeous, classically composed and richly textured. To the extent that Mr. White is well known, it is for a collection of images from 2001 called “Understanding Joshua.” For that series, Mr. White made a 5-foot-2 foam and latex creature that was part homunculus, part extraterrestrial, and placed him in a medley of humiliating scenarios, like sitting on a toilet and looking defeated, a woman’s shapely legs just barely visible in a shower beside him. Naked and tiny, his flaccid skin hanging in folds, Joshua is a stand-in, Mr. White said, “for male self-loathing.” Mr. White was just 23, newly graduated from the School of Visual Arts in New York and shooting a story for a pornographic magazine — about a sexy mutant he called Femalien — when he met the New York gallerist Andrea Rosen, whose stable included artists of the mid-’90s moment like the painter John Currin. Ms. Rosen made a show around the magazine, and Mr. White’s career began. “Jeff Wall is the grandfather of all of this sort of work,” Ms. Rosen said the other day, referring to the Canadian artist who started the practice of casting and directing fine art images with his haunting cinematic photographs. “What makes Charlie different and unique is that he physically makes these pieces, building them rather than digitally. Charlie’s work makes real that which is unthinkable. He lives in a very complex fictional world.” Ms. Rosen was referring to Mr. White’s mental landscape, but it is California, Mr. White’s adopted state, that provides the complex fictions for much if not all of his continuing horror stories: boy bands, the Manson girls, pink stuffed animals on the bed of a preteen. It is the plastic sheen of California and its main export, pop-culture imagery, that Mr. White chews on over and over again. “I am like the bulletin board of a preteen girl,” he said. “Or I am that girl.” Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. 'Virtue Is Not Its Own Reward' and Other Lessons for a Life in Art Poison Pen and Ink Next Article in Home & Garden (2 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Make your wedding a day to remember In the Weddings Directory: View All Paid Announcements Search Vendors & Services Post Your Paid Announcement N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/garden/index.html?partner=rssnyt	Home & Garden - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times A growing number of small stores are challenging Murray Moss’s supremacy as the arbiter of design in America. Slide Show: The Moss Model Slide Show: Design Stores Related Article: Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design At Home With Charlie White Order and Chaos in a Single Heartbeat Anxiety’s children: a perfectly aligned household and disquieting art. It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad A tiny portable garden is the place to raise greens and herbs. How can I create a feeling of old-world luxury in my bathroom? Q. Why are all my rhododendrons browning and looking lame? It’s not just my previously robust specimens; they’re fading all over Westchester County, N.Y. Dream Home Diaries Blog "When all else fails, face the facts. And the fact was we needed to build a smaller house." Go to Dream Home Diaries» Dressing rooms in the Hamptons, reimagining cardboard, far outside the box, rare rugs and more. The modern slipper chair, as distinctive as ever. House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In By KATE STONE LOMBARDI At the height of house tour season, a look at one Chappaqua couple who agreed to allow scores of strangers into their home to benefit the local historical society. For the Curious, It’s Open House Season The 2007 season of show houses and house and garden tours runs through fall, with several events every weekend. Here’s a list of tours throughout the country. MOST POPULAR - STYLE Girth and Nudity, a Pictorial Mission Modern Love: My First Lesson in Motherhood In the Garden: It Takes a Hammer to Grow This Salad The Minimalist: A No-Frills Kitchen Still Cooks Clearly, Frankly, Unabashedly Disabled Fitness: A Healthy Mix of Rest and Motion The Incredible Flying Granny Nanny Fitness: The Yoga Therapist Will See You Now A Sweet So Sour: Kool-Aid Dills The Curious Cook: The Five-Second Rule Explored, or How Dirty Is That Bologna? Go to Complete List » You Do the Math Go to Complete List » Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Post a job online today! Photos, fine art, books and more. Buy, sell or rent a home. Browse movie reviews from 1913. What’s new in technology? What’s new on Broadway? The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html?ex=1336708800&en=ead8c72300f87f0a&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France 50% off Times delivery. More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/13/nyregion/nyregionspecial2/13Rhouse.html	House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In - New York Times House Tours: Inviting Outsiders In Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This By KATE STONE LOMBARDI Published: May 13, 2007 Skip to next paragraph A Peek Inside a Beautiful Home Amble in (Take Off Your Shoes) For the Curious, It’s Open House Season Long Island, Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey Go to Complete Coverage » Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times The exterior of the Isles' 19th-century Italianate farmhouse. WHEN Betsy Isles received a phone call in early February asking if she would be willing to put her 19th-century Italianate farmhouse on a house tour, it all seemed comfortably far off: The tour date wasn’t until May. She would have plenty of time to get ready. The cause was a good one. Proceeds from the tour — tickets are $70 for members, $80 for nonmembers — would benefit the local historical society. Besides, Mrs. Isles and her husband, Chris, love their home. Fascinated by local history, they were willing to open up their house, where they have lived 15 years, to fellow history buffs. In fact, Mrs. Isles’s only initial concern about participating was that the upstairs of the house remained off limits to visitors; the idea of strangers peering into the rooms of her two teenagers was a bit much. Between then and now — the tour is just days away — the Isleses have spent months preparing for the big event. Mrs. Isles teaches art at Greenwich Country Day School in Greenwich, Conn. Her husband, the director of construction for a small real estate company in Manhattan, is good-natured, with a penchant for offbeat collections, like the African Mancala games and fanciful folk-art face jugs that are displayed in the house. Together they have been clearing clutter, patching ceilings, planting flowers and getting their house ready for the roughly 300 visitors they expect on Thursday. This is the height of the house tour season. May and June are prime time, but house tours — usually organized to raise money for charitable causes — have become so popular that they now extend through the fall. The Christmas season brings another, smaller round of tours of homes decorated for the holidays. The popularity of house tours seems to be driven by a combination of admiration and voyeurism. Visitors get a peek into beautiful homes they’ve always wanted to see. Some people are simply curious; others are looking for decorating ideas. Because the featured houses range from mansions interior-designed to the hilt to smaller homes of historical significance, reactions run the gamut from envy (sometimes mixed with a little cattiness) to genuine interest and inspiration. So many groups are running house tours these days that organizers can start to feel a little competitive. “You’re always looking for something to have on your house tour that might be a little different,” said Jennifer Coultas, president of the Boonton Historical Society and Museum in New Jersey, which was scheduled to hold its biannual tour yesterday. “There are just so many house tours out there that people might be wondering what you have that other people don’t have.” The tours may be ubiquitous, but planning them is not something organizers take lightly. The Isleses’ home is being featured on a tour of six homes, run by the New Castle Historical Society. From the initial scouting of the houses to the moment that the last visitors take off their paper booties (most homes have a no-shoes-allowed policy), hours of work, dozens of phone calls and countless e-mail messages have transpired to ensure that the event goes smoothly. Jane Lindau, co-chairwoman of the house tour committee for the historical society, began getting organized in November, culling houses from a continuing list she had been keeping of possible homes to feature. In choosing houses for the tour, she tries to balance style and period. Next comes the most challenging part of her job: courting the homeowners. “I was an institutional bond salesperson for an investment bank, so I’m used to calling people and bugging them,” said Ms. Lindau, who added that she usually tried to appeal to people by pointing out how interesting their home was and by pitching the historical society as a worthy cause. THOUGH a lot of homeowners are house proud, many are a little daunted by the idea of a tour, according to Ms. Coultas. Those who feel their homes must look magazine perfect may demur, saying they’ll reconsider after their floors have been refinished or once they have redecorated. More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. DAY TRIP; A Country Retreat Where Good Design Flourished HOUSE PROUD; For the Baron of Yonkers, a Gothic Revival DAY TRIPS; Antiques Among the Locust Trees New York Area Climbs Out of Recession New Castle Historical Society More Articles in New York Region &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. 50% off Times delivery. Statue of Liberty, New York Harbor, 1905 N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/10/garden/10moss.html?ex=1336449600&en=e7c5d96934de78db&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss	Aspiring to the Throne - New York Times Aspiring to the Throne From left: Donna Alberico for The New York Times; Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times; Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 10, 2007 LAST Friday afternoon, Jamie Gray, the owner of the Brooklyn design boutique Matter, stood in an empty storefront in Lower Manhattan, scraping away at a stubborn plastic UV filter that covered the front window. The work was punishing — “hopefully there won’t be any scratches or blood loss,” he said, though he ended up calloused and bleeding — and very time consuming, considering he had less than two weeks left until the opening of Matter’s new Manhattan branch. A lot of problems remained to be dealt with, including glass doors he had trouble mounting on the display cases, and the important shipment of Established & Sons furniture stuck in customs limbo. Skip to next paragraph Some Other Takes, From Coast to Coast, on Contemporary Design But Mr. Gray had been through worse in the last few months, he said. When he set out to find a Manhattan space in February, he was lucky. “I called the right agent on the right day,” he said, and found this storefront, which he decided he had to have. He was soon shaking hands on a deal for the property and envisioning an opening that would coincide with the design bacchanalia around the International Contemporary Furniture Fair in May. Two hours later the deal fell through. “For three weeks I was scrambling,” he said. “And then they changed their minds; I got the space. So it has a happy ending. Or a happy beginning, anyway.” Beyond the financial risk he is undertaking, Mr. Gray will face plenty of competition when he opens the store — meant to have a “more refined sensibility” than its Park Slope progenitor — on May 17, two days before the furniture fair starts at the Javits Convention Center. (The fair ends May 22.) Matter is just one of dozens of contemporary design shops that have opened around the country in the last few years, and most of those in New York will be vying for attention next week, hoping to use parties, exhibitions and other promotional events to attract the crowds that are coming to the fair. But there is one store that all of them will be measuring themselves against: Moss, the most visible and influential design boutique in America, the store that “changed the whole ground rules of what a design shop can be,” said Mayer Rus, a contributing editor at House & Garden. Murray Moss, who opened the SoHo store that bears his name in 1994, is widely acknowledged to be the king of high-design retailing in this country, at least by members of the New York and European design establishments. “He is a brilliant curator, shopkeeper, tastemaker,” said Ellen Lupton, the curator of contemporary design at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York, adding that he had reinvented the business with his approach to shopkeeping “as a major cultural undertaking.” From the beginning, Mr. Moss brought an extraordinarily well-attuned eye for what was fresh and exciting to the stocking of his shelves, and displayed his eclectic but painstakingly edited wares in an all-white, museum-like setting, behind glass or on raised platforms, with accompanying labels describing provenance. He promoted the work of emerging designers like Tord Boontje and Hella Jongerius the way gallerists promote young artists, even featuring them in solo exhibitions at the store. “He was extremely influential in showing the world that design is an undervalued market,” Mr. Rus said, “and that these are things that are worth our respect, attention and money.” The world listened. During the 2004 contemporary furniture fair, for example, Mr. Moss showed burnt-wood furniture by the Dutch designer Maarten Baas, who was just two years out of design school; a year later, commissioned 200 chairs from the line, called Smoke, for the Gramercy Park Hotel. “It’s really the ultimate thing for any designer to have a solo exhibition at Moss,” said Mr. Baas, now 29. “What was so important about Moss was the exposure he gave to all these talented people from around the world,” said Mr. Schrager. “Without him, this whole phenomenon — this new wave of design consciousness in America — might not have happened.” Designers, of course, have not been the only ones to profit. In recent years Mr. Moss has expanded his business beyond the original shop at 146 Greene Street, first with a duplex addition next door, then with a design gallery beyond that, and most recently with the restaurant Centovini, appointed in high Mossian style, around the corner. This year, the Spanish designer Patricia Urquiola has remade the original shop into the two-story Moroso at Moss, a collaborative venture with the Italian furniture manufacturer Moroso, to open on May 19, and in July the gallery, newly connected to the shop, will be given over to retail space. Next month, Mr. Moss will open his first out-of-city branch, a 4,000-square-foot store in Los Angeles. According to Franklin Getchell, who shares ownership of the store with Mr. Moss, the businesses are projected to make $25 million this year. Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; Need to know more? 50% off home delivery of The Times. To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. CRITICAL SHOPPER; A Trip to the Gift Shop Is Like a Day at the Museum THE HUNT; A Firehouse Reinvented by Art FORAGING; BERLIN: MONDOS ARTS FRONT ROW; The New Palette of Gansevoort Retail Stores and Trade Next Article in Home & Garden (1 of 9) &#x00bb; A Giant Takes On Physics&#8217; Biggest Questions An Amputee Sprinter: Is He Disabled or Too-Abled? Napa Valley? Bordeaux? No, but Still Wine Country Books: Doctors Who Wield the Pen to Heal the Profession The Greatest Mystery: Making a Best Seller Gonzales Pressed Ailing Ashcroft on Spy Plan, Aide Says Your Money: A Contrarian on Retirement Says Wait Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog The Critical Years: Middle School Manages Distractions of Adolescence Basics: In Hive or Castle, Duty Without Power Go to Complete List » Atomic Agency Concludes Iran Is Stepping Up Nuclear Work Ground Zero Illnesses Clouding Giuliani's Legacy Sex, Drugs and Updating Your Blog Is It the Woman Thing, or Is It Katie Couric? Billions in Oil Missing in Iraq, U.S. Study Finds The Flight From Iraq In a New Role, Senator Clinton's Strategist in Chief Religious Groups Granted Millions for Pet Projects Obama Says He'd Roll Back Tax Cuts for the Wealthiest Army Career Behind Him, General Speaks Out on Iraq Go to Complete List » Go to Complete List » $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: Explore the most luxurious homes in the U.S. Virgin Islands Explore the most luxurious homes in Hawaii Explore the most luxurious homes in France More than $7 Trades. It’s Called Value & We Value You. Find home & garden professionals in your area today In Home & Garden: View all Home & Garden Classifieds Post Your Ad Now! N.Y. / Region &#x00bb; Campaigning for History: F.D.R.’s Path Winemakers Take On Brazil’s Climate High Prices for Donor Eggs Stir Concerns Two Television Specials for Bob Barker The New York Times Company
