http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6708361.stm | Wife's martyr letter 'imaginary' GMT 14:41 martyr letter 'imaginary' Ms El Hor denies she urged her husband to become a terrorist A woman said a letter in which she apparently encouraged her husband to be a terrorist martyr was fantasy, a court has heard. Bouchra El Hor told police she wrote often and what she had said was "imaginary", the Old Bailey was told. It is alleged Ms El Hor, 24, of Ealing, west London, encouraged Yassin Nassari, 28, in a letter found in their luggage at Luton airport in May last year. The couple deny a total of three terrorism charges. Part of the letter, which was read to the jury, said: "Maybe one day I can follow you. If I can't, I will send our son to you so he can follow his father's footsteps. "I will pray to Allah to reunite us in heaven with our son and families." Aftab Jafferjee, prosecuting, said Ms El Hor told police she often wrote, "writing imaginary things like poems or letters referring to family and friends". He said she claimed the letter was written for herself and that it should be put in the context of her other writing, which depicted how men historically went off to fight in battles. Prosecutors claimed Ms El Hor said in the letter that she wished she could also be a martyr and promised she would one day send their baby son to follow in her husband's footsteps. They said the significance of the letter, found in the couple's luggage when they returned from a trip to Holland, was noted after missile-making instructions were found on Mr Nassari's computer. The prosecution allege Mr Nassari also had information on how to handle explosives and other material in preparation for an act of terror. Ms El Hor denies failing to disclose information on terrorism and Mr Nassari denies two charges of having documents and computer data for terrorism. The couple were married in London in March 2005 and have a one-year-old son. Ms El Hor is originally from the Netherlands, while Mr Nassari was born in London. 'urged man to die a martyr' 30 in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6707301.stm | Europe | Ukraine leader warns of snap poll GMT 14:43 leader warns of snap poll Ukraine's leaders have been involved in a bitter power struggle Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko says his political allies can trigger a snap poll if parliament fails to back a law calling for a September election. He said his allies would resign their parliamentary seats if the law was not passed, forcing the snap poll. He earlier extended until Thursday evening a deadline for parliament to finish debating the election law. Mr Yushchenko and his rival, PM Viktor Yanukovych, have agreed on the September election to end a stalemate. Their rivalry, dating back to 2004, has created a political crisis in Ukraine. Speaking during a day-long visit to Croatia, Mr Yushchenko said his allies would give up their seats in parliament if members did not approve the law within the new deadline. "So the election will be held automatically within 60 days - this is a clause in the constitution," Mr Yushchenko is quoted by the Reuters news agency as saying. Parliament had been asked to pass the measures by the end of Wednesday, but failed to do so in time, prompting Mr Yushchenko to extend the deadline by a day. The latest delay in parliament is reported to have been largely due to objections from Mr Yanukovych's supporters to the president's demand that MPs be prevented from changing parties once elected. Mr Yushchenko reached a deal on Sunday with his rival, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, to hold an early poll in September and thereby end months of crisis. Mr Yushchenko dissolved parliament in April, accusing Mr Yanukovych of trying to usurp his power. MPs are considering laws on election financing, electoral commission reform and the former Soviet republic's bid to join the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The election deal was reached after a marathon 12-hour session of talks between the two leaders on Sunday. Mr Yushchenko became president in January 2005 following the pro-democracy Orange Revolution, which overturned a rigged victory for Mr Yanukovych. But Mr Yushchenko was forced to accept his rival as prime minister after his allies failed to win a majority in the March 2006 parliamentary election, and the two men have repeatedly clashed. The president favours closer ties with the West, while the prime minister is seen as more pro-Russian. rivals agree on poll date Ukraine court opens crisis case Yushchenko rethinks poll move Ukraine leader calls early poll In pictures: Ukraine stand-off Leaders agree on an election date, but the wrangling is far from over Ukraine's future looks less orange Ukraine's heroes turn into foes Q&A: Ukraine political crisis Prime Minister of Ukraine blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/north_east/6707845.stm | North East/N Isles | Royal opening for Shetland museum GMT 13:55 opening for Shetland museum The Duchess of Rothesay was in Lerwick for the opening Prince Charles and Camilla have officially opened the new £11.6m Shetland Museum and Archive. The Duke and Duchess of Rothesay were joined by Queen Sonja of Norway at the museum, which has been 10 years in the planning at Lerwick Harbour. The museum uses much recycled material, with the reception desk made from a salvaged boat. A model of an extinct pig - which was the size of a large dog and had tusks - is also on show. The grice was indigenous to Shetland and can now be seen for the first time in more than 100 years thanks to researchers and a taxidermist. Boats have been suspended in mid-air as a major attraction. Elevated viewing platforms on each of the floors of the main building give visitors a series of views of the suspended boats. The boat hall traces the history of Shetland boats from Viking roots to the present day. AND AUDIO NEWS The island has a colourful heritage to show off Extinct island pig spotted again 17 Nov 06 | North East/N Isles Floating your boat Shetland style 04 Aug 06 | North East/N Isles NORTH EAST/N ISLES STORIES Teenager cleared over man's death Death driver 'was visiting grave' Police uniform stripper in court
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6708115.stm Ireland | Abuse boss 'will report priests' GMT 14:24 boss 'will report priests' The man who is to oversee the Catholic Church's Irish child protection board says he will have no qualms about reporting any priest involved in suspected child sex abuse. Ian Elliott, who headed the NSPCC in NI, says the "independent role" follows a career dedicated to child protection. The 60-year-old has been "impressed by the efforts" within the church to confront the well-documented problem. "Obviously in an ideal world this role wouldn't be necessary," he said. "What we're about is motivating ordinary people within the church to play a vital role with regards to child protection. "It's not some small select group making policies to be implemented from behind closed doors." Commenting on the reporting of clergy if suspected of child abuse, Mr Elliott, who is an active member of Ballywillan Presbyterian Church, Portrush, said he would readily do so no matter who was invoved. "If there is the slightest suspicion a child is being abused or indeed has been abused at any time in the past, I of course will have no qualms about reporting the incident to the appropriate authorities," he continued. "As I have already said this is all about helping the church move beyond apology. "But perhaps most importantly I want to put across the message that child protection is everyone's business no matter what the organisation." Last October, Pope Benedict XVI told Irish bishops that they had to deal with the problems caused by priests who sexually abuse children. Bishop Colm O'Reilly, welcoming Mr Wilson's appointment said that "the church is extremely pleased to have secured a person of Ian's proven integrity, expertise and stature to head up this most important role at this moment in the church's history, north and south". The issue of clerical abuse has been a long-running issue across the island of Ireland. Most recently, the Catholic Church said nearly 150 priests and members of other religious orders have been accused or suspected of abuse since 1940 in the Dublin archdiocese. the latest breaking news delivered to your desktop or mobile device Catholics detail Irish sex abuses 02 Abuse claims 'against 26 priests' 27 Oct 05 | Northern Ireland Ireland nuns apologise for abuse 06 May 04 | Europe Priests discussing sex abuse levy 25 Feb 05 | Northern Ireland Poll finds Irish mistrust Church 04 Dec 03 | Europe TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/north_east/6707777.stm | North East/N Isles | Police uniform stripper in court GMT 14:13 uniform stripper in court Mr Kennedy denied the allegations at Aberdeen Sheriff Court A male stripogram charged with wearing a police uniform and equipment has denied allegations in court of having offensive weapons in a public place. The incident involving Stuart Kennedy, happened in Aberdeen's Bon Accord Street on a Saturday night in March. Police took action and the 24-year-old was reported to the procurator fiscal. A plea of not guilty was lodged on Mr Kennedy's behalf at Aberdeen Sheriff Court to offensive weapons charges including having batons in public. Intermediate and trial dates later in the year have now been set for the Aberdeen University genetics student. The original police uniform charge is not being pursued. uniform stripper for court 08 East/N Isles Police uniform stripper charged 26 Apr 07 | North East/N Isles NORTH EAST/N ISLES STORIES Teenager cleared over man's death Death driver 'was visiting grave' Police uniform stripper in court
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6708379.stm | Hereford/Worcs | A first hearing for Elgar's last GMT 14:38 first hearing for Elgar's last The music is about "a disappointing love affair" The last piece of music ever written by the composer Edward Elgar is to have its world premiere this weekend on the 150th anniversary of his birth. The work, called X-T-C, was discovered by pianist David Owen Norris who will perform it at the Royal Academy of Music in London on 2 June. He said he pieced the music together from two sketches found at the composer's birthplace near Worcester. One of his best works is a highlight of the BBC's Last Night of the Proms. Pomp and Circumstance March No 1 is sung to the words "Land of Hope and Glory". Mr Norris told the BBC that the X-T-C piece is a nostalgic take on his feelings after a love affair. "Like most of Elgar's songs it's about his rather disappointing love affair with Helen Weaver and she fell ill and went to New Zealand to die, but in fact didn't die and haunted him for the rest of his life and many of his songs, like this one, are about how happy he could have been, if only," Mr Norris told BBC News. Elgar was born in 1857 in Lower Broadheath near Malvern, Worcs and died in 1934, the same year that two other great English composers died - Gustav Holst and Frederick Delius. His image was removed from the back of £20 notes earlier this year and replaced by Scottish economist Adam Smith. AND AUDIO NEWS The 'lost' piece of Elgar's work BBC Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester Elgar anniversary events planned 31 Dec 06 | West Midlands Keep Elgar on £20 notes campaign 02 Nov 06 | Hereford/Worcs Minor injury unit to have doctor Duo fined for dating website joke Police introduce new head cameras
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6708395.stm | US economy weakest in four years GMT 15:11 economy weakest in four years Firms have been cutting down on their supplies The US economy grew at a pace of 0.6% in the first three months of 2007, its weakest rate in more than four years, official figures have shown. Hit by Americans importing more goods and firms cutting their supply stockpiles, the figure was a downward revision on the initial 1.3% estimate. The latest figure from the Commerce Department was also worse than market expectations of 0.8%. It was the slowest rate of growth since the final three months of 2002. Another significant factor for the weak showing was the downturn in the housing market, which posted a 15.4% reduction in new home building during the quarter. Weakness in the housing market is also hitting the US economy However, consumer spending remained resilient, adding 4.4%. And business investment was better than earlier estimates, growing 2.9%, revised up from 2%. "It looked like the market was starting to lean into the wind, anticipating a weak number, and we got a little sell-off when it did come in," said Michael Woolfolk, senior currency strategist at Bank of New York. "But it's quite obvious the economy bottomed in the first quarter and this leaves us with a better base from which to bounce back." Other analysts are also confident that the figures for April to June will be much better. "I think we'll see second-quarter growth above 3% and 2.5% for all of 2007," said Lehman Brothers senior economist Drew Matus. Earlier this week, minutes from the last Federal Reserve meeting showed that the central bank continued to see inflation as the "predominant concern" for the US economy. The Fed left interest rates unchanged at 5.25% at its last meeting on 9 May. In its minutes, the Fed added that the housing market downturn had been more severe than expected, but that the risk of the US economy slowing abruptly had lessened. Separate figures on Thursday showed that US construction spending rose by an unexpected 0.1% in April, led by public and commercial building work. Economists had predicted no change. approach will Democrats take to economic policy in Congress? US consumers feel perkier in May US inflation rate slows in April Slowdown hits US growth Earnings keep Dow Jones strong 'Moderate' growth in US economy Fed holds US rates at 5.25% Q&A: The fall of the dollar The end of the American dream? Immigrants spark growth debate New US Treasury boss US economy: Key facts economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/jersey/6708369.stm | Europe | Jersey | Action urged after youth arrests GMT 14:12 urged after youth arrests Jersey Police have asked parents to check where their children are at night following a spate of arrests. On Wednesday evening, three girls aged 14 and a 15-year-old boy were arrested after an attack on a 20-year-old man in Parade Gardens in St Helier. The victim suffered a cut to his left cheek and minor damage was caused to his dark green VW Polo. A total of six young people have been arrested for similar offences this week, police said. Two men were assaulted in a similar incident last Friday. Police believe the youths had been drinking alcohol. travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Jersey Appeal following woman's assault 29 Apr 07 | Jersey £100K children's project starts 21 Jan 07 | Jersey captain after ferry collision Ex-con is turned away from island Debate over dirty money control
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/cambridgeshire/6708167.stm | Cambridgeshire | Cyclist dies following collision GMT 13:49 dies following collision A cyclist has died in hospital after being injured in a crash in Hertfordshire. The 46-year-old woman had been in a collision with a silver Seat Ibiza car, in Lucas Lane, Ashwell, near Baldock, on Tuesday afternoon. She suffered severe head injuries and was taken to Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge, where she later died. Hertfordshire police said the driver of the Seat, who is from Cambridgeshire, was unhurt in the crash. Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Travel, environment and more from the BBC website for Cambridgeshire dies following collision Family plea for arsonists to stop Recovery for warbler population
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6706623.stm | Blair issues Africa action call GMT 14:22 issues Africa action call Nelson Mandela thanked Mr Blair for his support Blair speech in full Tony Blair has used a keynote speech in South Africa to say there is a "moral obligation" to use political action "to make the world better". Mr Blair, who promised more training for African peacekeeping forces and continued aid to the region, defended his interventionist foreign policy. That policy, criticised after the Iraq war, had not managed to transform Africa but had made it better, he said. Mr Blair is on his last big trip before stepping down as prime minister. He has denied the week-long tour, which has also taken in Libya and Sierra Leone, is a "vanity tour" - dismissing his critics as "cynical". Mr Blair is meeting South African President Thabo Mbeki, where Zimbabwe's political crisis will be on the agenda. He also held talks with South Africa's former leader Nelson Mandela, who thanked him "for his support over the years" and said he held him in high regard. However ferocious the challenges are in this part of Africa it's better to intervene and try to make a difference than stay out and try to cope with the consequences at a later time African media verdict on Blair In full: Blair speech In his speech Mr Blair, who has sent UK troops into action in Kosovo, Sierra Leone, Afghanistan and Iraq while prime minister, said it was in countries' self interest to intervene in failing states. He said: "I believe in the power of political action to make the world better and the moral obligation to use it. "I do not believe that in this time - the early 21st century - that international politics can be just about nations' interests, narrowly and traditionally defined. "I believe that now, today, our self interest is in substantial part defined by the well-being of others, that the consequence of globalisation is that our best chance of security and prosperity lies in advancing freedom, opportunity and justice for all." The Liberal Democrats described his speech as "trying to rewrite" his foreign policy legacy. Foreign affairs spokesman Michael Moore said the "high points" of Kosovo and Sierra Leone had been "completely overshadowed by the prime minister's disastrous misjudgement over Iraq". Africa is close to my heart... it has also been at the top of my foreign policy for the last 10 years. Blair role in arms deal And Professor Ian Taylor, an expert in international relations, told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme said Britain needed a stronger political engagement with African leaders and to ask "tricky questions" about governance. "It's not good enough simply to increase aid," he said. "What we have got now is a foreign policy which is much more focused on an economic approach to Africa's problems, rather than a political approach." Mr Blair has called on the G8 group of industrialised nations, meeting in Germany from 6-8 June, to be "bolder on Africa" and take a more strategic approach "based on partnership rather than aid alone". "My belief is that we have to stay with it for the long-haul, commit and re-commit. Never let it be said that we are not trying even if it cannot always be said that we are succeeding." Mr Blair was made an honorary paramount chief in Sierra Leone He also said Africa should have a greater representation at international institutions, such as permanent representation on the UN Security Council. On Wednesday, the prime minister held talks with President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah of Sierra Leone and Liberia's President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf. Afterwards he said: "However ferocious the challenges are in this part of Africa it's better to intervene and try to make a difference than stay out and try to cope with the consequences at a later time." The UK sent peacekeeping troops during to Sierra Leone in 2000, helping to end the country's civil war, which earned Mr Blair much popularity in the West African state. On Tuesday Mr Blair held talks with Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, saying relations between the UK and Libya had been "completely transformed" in recent years. In Thursday's speech, the main one of his trip, Mr Blair said: "Africa is close to my heart... it has also been at the top of my foreign policy for the last 10 years. "From the very beginning however, I wanted to base that policy on a new partnership with African leaders and countries - not one based on rich and poor or donor and recipient, but based on common values of justice and democracy and human rights." AND AUDIO NEWS Tony Blair meets up with Nelson Mandela In full: Tony Blair's Africa speech 31 13 Apr 07 | Politics Show Blair role in SA arms contract 31 Blair attacks Africa trip critics 30 What is Blair's African legacy? 30 African media on Blair's legacy 30 Blair hails positive Libya talks 29 Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6707711.stm | Warning as Eurotunnel shares rise GMT 13:35 as Eurotunnel shares rise Paris stock market regulator AMF has issued a rare warning to brokers taking orders for Eurotunnel shares after a sharp rise in the firm's market price. The watchdog warned such orders were irrevocable and brokers should check clients have enough money to buy stock. The warning suggests AMF fears the soaring share price may leave some investors unable to pay for shares they buy or deliver shares they have sold. Eurotunnel shares have almost tripled since resuming trading on Tuesday. Eurotunnel shares rose 92% in Paris on Tuesday and another 90% on Wednesday. Thirteen percent of Eurotunnel shares began trading on Tuesday after holders of the other 87% agreed a reorganisation plan for the company, which will cut its debt from £6bn (8.9bn euros) to £2.84bn. The Anglo-French firm had faced bankruptcy unless its plans were backed by at least 50% of shareholders. Under the plans the majority of shareholders agreed to exchange their old Eurotunnel shares for the new Groupe Eurotunnel shares, which will not make their stock market debut until next month. As a result, the only Eurotunnel shares to benefit from the firm averting bankruptcy will be the 13% still trading on the Paris bourse - in other words those owned by investors who rejected the reorganisation plan. 'saved' by investors 25 D-day for Eurotunnel debt plans 21 Eurotunnel investors in perks row 02 Apr 07 | Business Eurotunnel in mixed market return 27 Mar 07 | Business Eurotunnel sees 2006 loss narrow 07 Mar 07 | Business Eurotunnel wins Sangatte payout 26 Feb 07 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/essex/6708367.stm | Essex | Families trial autism alert card GMT 13:48 trial autism alert card An alert card to help emergency services identify if they are dealing with someone with an autism-related condition is being trialled in Essex. The card has been developed by Essex Autistic Society with Essex Police. This summer, 500 families in Colchester will take part in the trial and the society then hopes to launch the card in other regions. The card has the person's name, details of their condition and two contact numbers if help is required. travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Essex gun victim making progress Families trial autism alert card Bids to sign up singing waitress
http://news.bbc.co.uk/ Front Page Download the best of the 10 O'Clock News GMT 17:01 UK US urges new climate goals US President George W Bush outlines a new plan to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. US 'opposes' G8 proposals Climate change around the world Andrei Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. Italy lifers of prisoners serving life sentences in Italy call on the president to reinstate the death penalty. Putin warns US over 'arms race' Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Thai security chiefs fear unrest Turkish MPs back presidency vote US growth weakest in four years Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' ALSO IN THE NEWS Soon you will be able to surf the net - even when offline Just wizard! US Football: Blatter secures Fifa job Tennis: Hewitt overcomes Gaudio Should record number of Everest conquerors be celebrated? or border - oddities of the US immigration system VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS the cards UN Hariri move proves divisive Bush calls for climate action More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Spy death suspect 'blames UK' Blair S Africa speech in full Campaign to axe plastic bags AROUND THE WORLD NOW Blair issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions US actor to run for president Cold forces Argentine energy cuts State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild EU asks industry to fight obesity Russia denies foreign energy bias Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack MORE FROM BBC NEWS Increase in anti-terror targets EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Women warned on iron 'overdose' Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt Hariri court split Lebanon? Help us make the news, with your pictures, views and stories actor will run for president urges new greenhouse gas goals salute to a chocolate cake of aristocrats and court battles One of the deadliest months in Iraq brings doubt over US tactics Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/tayside_and_central/6708113.stm | Tayside and Central | Farm worker jailed for sex crimes GMT 13:42 worker jailed for sex crimes Bryant was sentenced at the High Court in Edinburgh A former farm worker who had sex with a 12-year-old girl he met when she went to help out at stables has been jailed for eight years. Peter Bryant, 50, also had unlawful intercourse with the victim's 15-year-old friend after telling her he would teach her to ride a horse. Bryant previously admitted the offence against the 15-year-old which took place in Dunblane, Perthshire, in 1999. He also admitted having unlawful sex with the younger girl in 2002. That offence occurred at a house in Rothesay on the Isle of Bute. Bryant also admitted committing indecency offences with both girls and failing to appear at court last year. As well as being jailed, he was placed on the sex offenders' register. Passing sentence at the High Court in Edinburgh on Thursday, judge Lord Kinclaven said: "You have accepted responsibility for a number of serious sexual offences against two young girls. "Clearly there is no alternative to a significant custodial sentence." The court heard the younger girl made a complaint to police in 2003 and Bryant, who had moved to the Midlands, was arrested by police in Kidderminster, Worcestershire, in 2004. He was given bail at Stirling Sheriff Court but then failed to turn up for a court appearance. Bryant was arrested on warrant in London last year after returning from Portugal. Advocate depute John Halley told the court Bryant had initially denied the allegations but admitted he had had a sexual relationship with the older girl when she was 17. He said the girl had been helping out at a riding school for the disabled when Bryant arrived to collect a horse. Bryant suggested she come to the Stirlingshire farm, where he was employed as a manager, to help there. The court heard he later began kissing and cuddling the girl in a tack room at the farm and had sex with her. The younger victim was first molested by Bryant after she went to help out at the stables and he later had sex with her after he moved to a flat in Rothesay. Defence solicitor advocate David Brookens said Bryant, a first offender, had been the target for vigilante justice in the Midlands after his crimes had first emerged. Bryant was jailed seven and a half years for his sex crimes and a further three months for failing to appear at court. Lord Kinclaven said he would also refer Bryant's case to scottish ministers under child protection legislation for him to be included on a list of those unsuitable to work with youngsters. manager admits underage sex 14 Mar 07 | Tayside and Central TAYSIDE AND CENTRAL STORIES Farm worker jailed for sex crimes Staff sorrow as osprey chick dies Councils bid to cut CO2 emissions
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/hampshire/6708179.stm | Hampshire | Drivers kept to 20mph near homes GMT 13:45 kept to 20mph near homes Portsmouth council will introduce a 20mph speed limit on Friday Motorists in Portsmouth will have to limit their speed to 20mph in the city's residential areas as part of a major new road safety initiative. The council says the new limit around most homes will protect all users of the city's narrow, congested streets. However, a spokesman admitted that the scheme will be "self-enforcing", with no additional resources allocated. Most of Portsmouth's main routes will not be affected by the lower limit which is to be brought in on Friday. Starting in the south east of Portsmouth, it will be extended across most of the city by the end of 2007. The government funded scheme follows a period of consultation which, the council says, showed that the majority of residents were in favour. It's a vital safety measure and we make no apology for bringing it in Traffic surveys will be carried out after six and 12 months to help monitor its success. If speeds have not dropped, residents will be asked whether they want extra action to be taken. Councillor Alex Bentley, executive member for traffic, praised the "bold step" and said the new speed limit will help to "change attitudes and make speeding an anti-social way to behave". He added: "It's a vital safety measure and we make no apology for bringing it in." Similar low-speed zones are already in place in other towns and cities across the south, such as Salisbury and Bournemouth. Portsmouth City Council, however, claims that its adoption of the 20mph limit is "a first" in terms of the extent of the area covered. travel news and more from the BBC's Hampshire website Primary wins 20mph limit battle 09 Jan 07 | South of Scotland Review of county's speed limits 23 Dec 06 | Hampshire 20mph speed limit plans for town 26 Sep 06 | Berkshire Twenty's plenty for city centre 24 Jul 06 | North East/N Isles Action Network - Road Safety mobile phone raid near M-way Rare donkey foals put up for sale Drivers kept to 20mph near homes
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6707729.stm | Americas | Cold forces Argentine energy cuts GMT 13:43 forces Argentine energy cuts Chile relies heavily on Argentina for natural gas Argentina has been rationing gas supplies as cold weather blamed for some 17 deaths continues to strain the country's energy system. Officials ordered that homes and small businesses be given priority for natural gas, with large industrial users told to cut back. Argentine officials said they hoped normal service would resume soon. On Monday, Argentina stopped exporting natural gas to neighbouring Chile but shipments have now been resumed. Parts of Argentina, including the capital Buenos Aires, have been experiencing near freezing temperatures this week. The strain on the country's energy infrastructure was exacerbated by technical problems at two nuclear power stations. "We have been prioritising supplies for family homes and businesses," the under-secretary for fuels, Cristian Folger, told the state news agency Telam. Restrictions on the sale of compressed natural gas for vehicles have also caused long queues at service stations, provoking protests among Buenos Aires taxi drivers whose cars run on the fuel. Correspondents say although Argentina's economy has been growing strongly in recent years, there has not been sufficient investment in infrastructure. The cold snap in Argentina is forecast to ease over the next few days. and Brazil agree gas deal 15 Feb 07 | Business South Americans reach energy deal 04 May 06 | Business Patagonia wind aids remote communities 10 Feb 06 | Americas South America unveils pipeline 02 Mar 06 | Americas Argentina energy crisis spreads 01 Apr 04 | Business US urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/northamptonshire/6708315.stm | Northamptonshire | Hammer used to threaten homeowner GMT 14:02 used to threaten homeowner A masked burglar threatened a woman with a hammer after kicking down the front door of her Northants home. The raider demanded a set of car keys after confronting the victim inside her home in Bobtail Court, Duston, Northampton, in the early hours. When she refused to hand them over the burglar grabbed a set of keys to another car, which were on the floor near to the front door. He ran off towards Harlestone Road when confronted by the woman's husband. Three men had been seen acting suspiciously around a car parked on the driveway of the house earlier in the evening. The main offender was dressed in a light coloured two-tone hooded top with a half zip up the front, a dark balaclava and dark bottoms. The jacket's hood was up over the balaclava. The other two raiders were in their early to mid-teens. Police believe the burglary may be linked to an attempted raid a few minutes earlier in Roundwood Way, Duston, Northampton, in which two people were disturbed trying to force a patio door. travel, chat and more from the BBC in Northamptonshire plea for arsonists to stop Hammer used to threaten woman City's sorting office to relocate
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6708377.stm | Americas | US 'slavery' couple granted bail GMT 14:16 'slavery' couple granted bail Varsha Sabhnani and her husband have pleaded not guilty A wealthy US couple accused of keeping two Indonesian women as slaves in a New York home and abusing them, have been granted bail under strict conditions. A judge said Varsha Sabhnani, 35, and her husband, Mahender Sabhnani, 51, should remain under home detention pending the outcome of their trial. The Indian-born couple were arrested last week after one of the women escaped from their Long Island home. They pleaded not guilty to forced labour and harbouring illegal migrants. US District Judge Thomas Platt said the couple could be released from police custody on payment of bail set at $3.5m (£1.7m). They were to be confined to their home, and subject to 24-hour surveillance, telephone wiretaps and physical searches, the judge ruled. The couple, who run a perfume business, were arrested after one of the women was found wandering the streets dressed in only trousers and a towel. It is thought she escaped when she took rubbish out for collection the previous night. Lawyers for the accused said the couple spent a lot of time abroad and that the two Indonesian women were free to leave whenever they wanted. One of the women said they slept on mats in the kitchen The pair were described as "model citizens" who "only want to clear their name". Prosecutors described the case as "modern-day slavery" and said the two women were beaten, had scalding water thrown over them and were forced to eat hot chilli peppers. One of the women also said they had to sleep on mats in the kitchen and had no option but to steal food as their meals were so meagre. The couple also refused to pay the women directly, sending only $100 (£50) a month to a relative in Indonesia, officials said. The women, identified as Nona and Samirah, arrived in the US legally in 2002 but had their passports confiscated by the Sabhanis, officials said. Their visas have since expired. on US slavery charge 24 US urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/6705647.stm | Mother saw family diving deaths News in video and audio GMT 17:05 saw family diving deaths Richard Avent was a leading expert on historic Welsh buildings An archaeologist who introduced her husband and teenage son to diving has told how she watched them die on a holiday on the Maltese island of Gozo. Richard Avent, 58, and son Rhydian, 16, from Raglan in Monmouthshire, drowned during a dive last August. Dr Sian Rees said it appeared they forgot to exhale while ascending, causing their lungs to burst. Recording an accident verdict, the Coroner David Bowen said the tragedy could not have been foreseen. The court heard that Dr Rees, a marine archaeologist for Welsh heritage agency Cadw, began diving back in her college days. Her husband - a renowned chief inspector of ancient monuments with Cadw - had taken up an interest in diving and had trained in Croatia with their son, Rhydian. They went to Gozo on a diving holiday last August where they joined a group led by an instructor from a diving centre. They completed three dives without any problems. But on the fourth, Rhydian and Richard got into trouble. They had been told that the most interesting things to see were below 20m but that because of their relative inexperience, Mr Avent and his son would have to remain above that depth. Dr Sian Rees said the tragedy in her family was "indescribable" Experienced diver, Dr Rees - whose other two children were not with them - offered to stay with them but they told her to go with the rest of the group. She told the hearing that Mr Avent and Rhydian had given the OK signal three times during the dive. But then when she looked back, she saw them ascending and realised they were in trouble. Once she reached them, she said they were descending again. Rhydian's breathing regulator was no longer in his mouth. After managing to get Rhydian to the surface, she tried to resuscitate him but there was red foam coming from his mouth and she realised he was dead. The diving supervisor had attempted to revive Mr Avent with no success. Dr Rees said she assumed Rhydian had got into trouble and his father had tried to get him to the surface but in their panic, they had forgotten to exhale as they went upwards. I will have to live for the rest of my life with a perception of culpability in that I was present and will always feel that there must have been something I could have done to prevent this happening The inquest heard that Dr Rees had thought long and hard about why Rhydian had lost his regulator but no theory worked completely. It was possible he had switched off his air supply without realising when he got into the water or he may have become tangled with his father. She thought it unlikely the hose had been snagged on the rocks. Asked by the coroner whether her husband and son had been competent divers, she said you could only tell if someone was really competent by their reaction when something went wrong. Dr Rees, whose two older children had not been with them on the holiday, said she could not help blaming herself for what happened. "The tragedy that has befallen my family is indescribable and is all the more terrible in that it was avoidable," she said. "I will have to live for the rest of my life with a perception of culpability in that I was present and will always feel that there must have been something I could have done to prevent this happening." She also told the inquest she believes the Professional Association of Diving Instructors should review its safety guidance and consider introducing a probationary period for young or inexperienced divers. The association has issued a statement offering its condolences and says while they do all they can to minimise risks, diving will never be completely safe. Following the deaths in 2006, a post-mortem examination concluded that the pair died from barotrauma - pressure difference between lungs and the outside atmosphere - and drowning. At the time, First Minister Rhodri Morgan paid tribute to Mr Avent's "massive contribution" to the protection and conservation of Wales's historic sites and buildings. out more about what is going on across the region Funeral for holiday tragedy pair 12 Aug 06 | Wales Man and son drowned during dive 04 Aug 06 | Wales Tributes paid to castles expert 03 Aug 06 | Wales Man and son die on diving holiday 03 Aug 06 | Wales reveals assembly cabinet Mother saw family diving deaths 'Stolen' Aborigine apology demand
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/kent/6707741.stm | Kent | Call for action after fatal crash GMT 14:11 for action after fatal crash A pregnant woman was involved in this accident in March 2003 Residents are calling for urgent action to improve a notorious stretch of road in Kent after an accident in which an 11-year-old girl died. She was a passenger in a car involved in a three-vehicle crash on the A258 between Dover and Deal on Sunday. "I arrived eight weeks ago and this is the third accident since then," said Swingate Inn landlord, Graham Dove. Kent County Council (KCC) said early indications were that the road was not a factor in the latest accident. Mr Dove said one of the pub's regulars died in an accident involving a car when he was walking along the A258 at the end of 2006 "It is a very, very busy road but I think it is country lane standard - narrow, winding with high hedges and we all drive far too fast down it," he said. Earlier last year, a baby had to be delivered by Caesarian section after the mother went into labour following a head-on collision. The road has a 50mph speed limit, with speed cameras, and improvements have been made to junctions and bends in an effort to cut accidents. Dover MP Gwynn Prosser said he was a frequent user of the A258. "I have seen lots of near misses and had some scary moments myself," he said. "I accept that some important improvements have been made but I am asking KCC highways department to make a new appraisal of the road." KCC said it offered its sincere condolences to the family of the 11-year-old girl. It added: "The police investigation into this tragic crash is at an early stage but they have indicated that the highway is not a contributing factor." sport, chat and more from the BBC website for Kent Girl, 11, dies in three-car crash 27 Pedestrian death driver quizzed 29 Dec 06 | Kent Baby born after crash is critical 27 Mar 06 | Kent Work to begin on improving road 13 Aug 04 | Kent for action after fatal crash Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge One dead and two injured in crash
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6707803.stm | Europe | Russia rebuffs West over Kosovo GMT 14:21 rebuffs West over Kosovo BBC South-East Europe analyst Kosovo's economy is struggling to emerge from the doldrums As the crunch time for resolving Kosovo's long-term status approaches, the war of words between Russia and the Western powers on the future of Serbia's independence-seeking province shows no sign of abating. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Wednesday "our positions are diametrically opposed and I don't see any chances of the positions moving any closer together". Russia has been opposing a draft resolution presented to the UN Security Council by the US and its EU allies, which would endorse a plan drawn up by UN special envoy Martti Ahtisaari for internationally-supervised independence for Kosovo. Attempts to bridge the gap on the draft resolution failed to make headway during talks that US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice held in Moscow in mid-May. Russia's publicly stated position is that a solution needs the approval of both parties. Mr Lavrov reiterated that point during a recent visit to Belgrade, after he met Serbia's President Boris Tadic. Russia's foreign minister wants more negotiations on Kosovo "Ultimate legitimacy can be reached through decisions that will be acceptable to both sides," Mr Lavrov said, "in this case, both for Kosovar Albanians and Belgrade". Since Serbia has rejected the Ahtisaari recommendations out of hand, that would imply that Russia might use its veto, as one of the five permanent members of the Security Council, to scupper the proposed supervised independence for Kosovo. The United States and - more reluctantly - the EU have endorsed the Ahtisaari plan as the best one possible, in the absence of an agreement between Belgrade and Kosovo's overwhelmingly ethnic Albanian community. No such deal emerged from a year-long series of talks Mr Ahtisaari chaired in Vienna until March. Meanwhile, Western governments are hoping that Moscow's disapproval does not necessarily mean it will veto a UN resolution. Russia's most senior officials - including Mr Lavrov - have tended to avoid using the term "veto", while hinting at its possible use. That has been viewed as an attempt on the Kremlin's part to keep its options open. However, in recent months - particularly since the emergence of the Ahtisaari proposals - Russia has adopted a firmer position in arguing for a settlement reached by consensus. It has made fewer attempts to establish an analogy between Kosovo and the pro-Russian breakaway regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia in Georgia. Last year President Vladimir Putin sought to highlight such a link, implying that if Kosovo gained independence, then so should these territories. Russia's opposition to the West over Kosovo does not appear to be motivated by a history of friendship with Serbia on grounds of a shared Slavic cultural background and Orthodox Christian heritage. After all, Russia pulled its peacekeepers out of Kosovo in 2003, despite the fact that the Serb minority there were complaining, as they still are, of being the victims of harassment and discrimination at the hands of the ethnic Albanian majority. Russia's early departure from Kosovo, justified on grounds of cost-cutting, was viewed by many Kosovar Serbs as leaving them in the lurch. The withdrawal from Kosovo four years ago was also in stark contrast with the unannounced arrival of Russian peacekeepers there back in 1999. The Russian dash to Pristina airport nearly produced a confrontation with the main body of the peacekeeping contingent under Nato's command which the Russian troops eventually joined, as originally agreed. Russia's conduct both in 1999 and today appears to be motivated by a determination to show the West, and the US in particular, that it should be taken seriously - as one of the key players on the international stage. The circumstances now are very different, though. Thanks to its oil wealth in an era of high energy prices, Russia believes it has regained its former status as a great power, which it lost during the economic collapse in the immediate post-communist era. Mr Ahtisaari failed to get a deal between Serbs and ethnic Albanians When it comes to the dipomatic battle of wills over Kosovo, that factor probably accounts for much more than Russia's sympathy for the Serbs - although support for fellow-Orthodox Serbs has a populist appeal to some sections of Russian society. The Kremlin might still decide to abstain in a vote - an option made easier by the fact that the text of the UN resolution, like the main section of Mr Ahtisaari's blueprint, does not include an explicit reference to "independence". Western diplomats also note that, until very recently, Russia played what they describe as a generally "constructive" role as a member - along with the US, Britain, France, Germany and Italy - of the six-nation Contact Group that has been spearheading the UN's drive to settle Kosovo's status. However, before the Kremlin reconsiders its stance it may be looking for some concessions, both on Kosovo and other issues. In the case of Kosovo, these could include a moratorium on the territory's membership of the UN and other international bodies once it becomes independent. Elsewhere, Moscow may be angling for an undertaking from Nato not to continue its enlargement into former Soviet republics by inviting Georgia, and possibly Ukraine, to join the alliance. Meanwhile, Washington has also signalled its readiness to bypass Russia, if necessary, by stating that it will recognise Kosovo's independence, even if there is no UN Security Council resolution in place to endorse it. Russia may want to avoid a confrontation of that kind, and it has repeatedly tried to put off the moment of decision by calling for more talks. But the US and key Western countries believe the time for further delays has passed. They are concerned about a build-up of frustration among Kosovo's Albanian majority - and unlike Russia, they have peacekeepers on the ground who may become the targets of possible violence. The last chance for a deal may now be just a few days away - at the G8 summit of leading industrial nations in Germany on 6-8 June. If Russia stands by Serbia, Kosovo's assembly will almost certainly vote for a unilateral declaration of independence. That would be a scenario for diplomatic upheaval and chaotic developments on the ground, which would present further challenges not only to the West but Russia as well. police arrest nationalists UN plans for independence Decisive step to statehood Russia rebuffs West over Kosovo plan Serb leader defiant on Kosovo Nato's 24-hour beat in Kosovo Kosovo Serbs face hard choices Your memories of a conflict Clubbing into a new Kosovo Kosovo's cadets forge ahead Flashback to Kosovo's war Will the new Kosovo work? 1999: Nato strikes timeline 2000: An uneasy peace blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/northamptonshire/6708473.stm | Northamptonshire | Family plea for arsonists to stop GMT 17:05 plea for arsonists to stop Callum Bland, aged three, died from smoke inhalation The family of a toddler killed in a house fire in Northamptonshire has spoken for the first time of how the tragedy destroyed their lives. Callum Bland, aged three, died on 19 March in an arson attack on his home in the Fulmar Lane area of Wellingborough. His mother Jayne Fisher urged those carrying out arson attacks to "grow-up" and consider the consequences of their actions. "I just feel sorry for the family of whoever is doing it", Ms Fisher said. We have no memories or anything, they have all gone up in the house Paul Bonner, Callum's stepfather Paul Bonner, Callum's stepfather, said: "It's childish and immature. At the end of the day it could be another child that loses their life for the sake of a prank. "It's not just a bit of fun, they are playing with people's lives. We lost our home, we lost our son, we lost everything really." Mr Bonner added: "We have our three children and that is it. We have no memories or anything, they have all gone up in the house." Callum's mother and stepfather gave their first interview as police appealed for information about a spate of wheelie bin fires in neighbouring Cambridgeshire. The toddler who was asleep, was unable to escape with the rest of the family when the fire broke out. Ms Fisher, Mr Bonner, and three other children, aged from five months to five years old, managed to escape the blaze. A man aged in his 30s from Wellingborough, who was arrested in April as part of a police investigation into the fire, has now been released without charge. Three people remain on police bail in connection with a series of other fires on Wellingborough's Hemmingwell estate. AND AUDIO NEWS The family of a toddler killed in a house fire have spoken out Sport, travel, chat and more from the BBC in Northamptonshire Bin tests in fire death inquiry 29 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Fire death boy's inquest opened 23 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Inhaled smoke killed boy in fire 20 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Boy dies as bin fire ignites home 19 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Northants Fire and Rescue plea for arsonists to stop Hammer used to threaten woman City's sorting office to relocate
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6708245.stm | Alliance Boots takeover approved GMT 15:17 Boots takeover approved Alliance Boots says it aims to get a new pensions deal Alliance Boots shareholders have approved an £11.1bn buyout by private equity firm KKR and deputy chairman Stefano Pessina. A total of 96% of Alliance Boots shareholders backed the deal. It is the first time a FTSE 100 company firm has been bought by a private equity firm. The firm expects the takeover to be complete in July, although it remains in talks with pension trustees over future pensions provision. KKR first approached the Boots board in March with an offer for the firm. A bidding war briefly broke out when an investment consortium led by Guy Hands and Terra Firma made an offer for the pharmacy chain, but KKR increased their offer by £500m, which forced their rivals out of the race. Earlier on Thursday, the head of the Alliance Boots pensions fund attacked the firm for backing the deal before an agreement had been reached on future pensions provision. We have made it clear that the borrowings taken on to finance the acquisition will affect the (pension) scheme John Watson, Chairman of the trustees of the Alliance Boots pension scheme John Watson, chairman of the trustees of the health and beauty group's pension scheme, made the comments ahead of the shareholder vote on the takeover. He is worried that the debt being taken on by buyer Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR) may jeopardise the scheme. Alliance Boots said it was urging KKR "to come to some arrangement". "The fact of the matter is that the Boots' pension fund is one of the best run and best funded schemes in the FTSE 100 index," said Alliance Boots chairman Sir Nigel Rudd. "You have my assurance that I will be pressing very hard for an agreement." The pensions scheme's trustees have already intimated that a current review of the fund may show a £305m deficit. They are pushing for KKR to put up to £1bn extra into the scheme. While the trustees have no power to veto the Boots takeover, if an agreement with them is not made it will be the first time that a FTSE 100 company has changed hands without the approval of its pension fund trustees. "We have made it clear that the borrowings taken on to finance the acquisition will affect the scheme," said Mr Watson. The Alliance Boots pension fund has 66,000 members, including 16,000 employees who are still making contributions. Alliance Boots was formed less than a year ago after the merger of Boots and drug wholesale giant Alliance UniChem. rise post-merger at Boots 02 Cost and job worries in Boots bid 25 Apr 07 | Business This Boots was made for stalking 24 Apr 07 | Business Terra Firma drops Boots bid plan 24 Apr 07 | Business Bidding war breaks out for Boots 20 Apr 07 | Business Boots bid 'unsettling' for staff 20 Apr 07 | Nottinghamshire economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6707785.stm | Highlands and Islands | New homes and shops plan unveiled GMT 14:03 homes and shops plan unveiled The plan includes an expansion of the resort's shopping complex A holiday resort has unveiled plans for a major housing and shopping development for Aviemore. Aviemore Highland Resort - which comprises Macdonald Hotels, Tulloch Homes and Bank of Scotland - lodged the proposal with Highland Council. The plans include new homes - up to 50% of which will be classed as affordable - a superstore, five offices and three retail outlets near Grampian Road. It has been forecast that the development will create 300 jobs. The application also includes an expansion of the resort's shopping complex. In April, a new education and training centre was opened at the resort. The Centre of Applied Tourism and Hospitality Management also involves Highlands and Islands Enterprise, UHI Millennium Institute, Swiss Education Group and Motherwell College. school plan for Highlands 25 Apr 07 | Highlands and Islands Hotel short listed for two awards 24 Aug 06 | Highlands and Islands Macdonald Aviemore Highland Resort HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Loch Ness in world heritage bid New homes and shops plan unveiled Seal pup centre needs medics
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/north_yorkshire/6708519.stm | North Yorkshire | Big rise in drink-drive figures GMT 14:39 rise in drink-drive figures North Yorkshire Police caught a large number of drink-drivers The number of motorists found to be over the drink-drive limit in North Yorkshire increased by 65% in the last year, figures have revealed. More than 1,800 drivers were found to be over the limit in the year to April 2007, jumping from the figure of 1,107 in the previous year. The new Deputy Chief Constable Adam Briggs described the increase as "a totally unacceptable number". The force is to begin a major crackdown, including surprise checks. Mr Briggs said: "Driving plus drink or drugs equals deadly danger. It is as simple as that." He said the 1,834 drivers and riders found over the limit in the county last year was unacceptable. "That means that every day there are five drivers or riders who feel they have the right to gamble with other people's lives. That attitude cannot be tolerated." Throughout next week officers will be breath-testing all drivers and riders involved in crashes, mounting extra patrols and setting up surprise stop-checks across the county. sport, chat and more from the BBC website for North Yorkshire NORTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Big rise in drink-drive figures Man quizzed over woods sex attack UK beach hygiene hailed in report
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/wear/6708273.stm | Wear | Man beaten by gang with iron bars GMT 13:53 beaten by gang with iron bars A man is in intensive care with a fractured skull after he was attacked by a gang armed with iron bars at a garage near Chester-le-Street. The 43-year-old was assaulted on Byron Street in Ouston on Wednesday night. He was taken to the University Hospital of North Durham. His attackers made off in a white van, which was later traced to an address in Chester-le Street, police said. A 24-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of wounding. They are appealing for information from anyone who was in the area and witnessed the incident which happened shortly before 2130 BST. Dt Sgt Kevin Mooore said: "This is a serous assault which left a man badly injured. "It would seem this has not been a random attack but the motive is not yet clear." The injured man is currently undergoing tests. leisure, webcams and much more from the BBC website for Wear custody death was suicide Man critical in sub-station shock Man beaten by gang with iron bars
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/3223484.stm | RSS | News feeds from the BBC feeds from the BBC What are news feeds? How can I use them? How do I get a news reader? Can I use these feeds on my site? Can I create my own BBC News feeds? What are News Feeds? News feeds allow you to see when websites have added new content. You can get the latest headlines and video in one place, as soon as its published, without having to visit the websites you have taken the feed from. Feeds are also known as RSS. There is some discussion as to what RSS stands for, but most people plump for 'Really Simple Syndication'. In essence, the feeds themselves are just web pages, designed to be read by computers rather than people. How do I start using feeds? In general, the first thing you need is something called a news reader. This is a piece of software that checks the feeds and lets you read any new articles that have been added. There are many different versions, some of which are accessed using a browser, and some of which are downloadable applications. Browser-based news readers let you catch up with your RSS feed subscriptions from any computer, whereas downloadable applications let you store them on your main computer, in the same way that you either download your e-mail using Outlook, or keep it on a web-based service like Hotmail. Once you have chosen a news reader, all you have to do is to decide what content receive. For example, if you would like the latest BBC News Entertainment stories, simply visit the Entertainment section and you will notice an orange button on the left hand side. If you would like the latest BBC News World video stories, visit the Video and Audio section of the BBC News Website (www.bbc.co.uk/newsvideoaudio ) and click on the button at the bottom of the World section. If you click on the RSS button you can subscribe to the feed in various ways, including by dragging the URL of the feed into your news reader or by cutting and pasting the same URL into a new feed in your news reader. Most sites that offer feeds use a similar orange button, but some may just have a normal web link. Some browsers, including Firefox, Opera and Safari, automatically check for feeds for you when you visit a website, and display an icon when they find one. This can make subscribing to feeds much easier. For more details on these, please check their websites. Other News Readers (GOOGLE) do I get a news reader? There is a range of different news readers available and new versions are appearing all the time. Different news readers work on different operating systems, so you will need to choose one that will work with your computer. Using BBC News feeds on your site If you run your own website, you can display the latest headlines from other websites on your own site using RSS. We encourage the use of BBC News feeds as part of a website, however, we do require that the proper format and attribution is used when BBC News content appears. The attribution text should read "BBC News" or "bbc.co.uk/news" as appropriate. You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trademark. We reserve the right to prevent the distribution of BBC News content and the BBC does not accept any liability for its feeds. Please see the Can I make my own feeds? It is possible to create your own feeds, by using the BBC News search engine. The first step is to choose a search term, and type it into the search engine as normal. When your search results load, then choose the "BBC News & Sport" tab. Review the new results, and if they accurately reflect the topic you have chosen you can now use the orange feeds button to add the selection to your news reader, or to your website. Full programmes and highlights to download Sign up to a range of newsletters Download the news ticker and alerts service Get the top stories, wherever you are Get BBC News Select Audio headlines on your mobile Video headlines on your mobile Breaking news SMS alerts Let the news come to you Week At a Glance SELECTION OF VIDEO RSS FEEDS How To Speed-Read the Net Working the web: Newsreaders Bootcamp 299: RSS - a better way to surf?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6707775.stm | Europe | Excerpts: Lugovoi news conference GMT 14:29 Lugovoi news conference Andrei Lugovoi, the man suspected of poisoning ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, has held a news conference in Moscow. Here are excerpts of his statement. ON THE BRITISH SECRET SERVICES' ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT IN THE POISONING "It's hard to get rid of the thought that Litvinenko was an agent who got out of the secret service's control and was eliminated. Even if it was not done by the secret service itself, it was done under its control or connivance." Asked if there was evidence of their direct participation, Lugovoi said: "There is." ON ALLEGEDLY BEING RECRUITED AS A BRITISH SPY Mr Lugovoi said in 2005 Mr Litvinenko invited him to London where he proposed the idea of starting a joint business. Mr Lugovoi went on to say that he was paid too much money for giving minor consultations to British business partners. "It became clear that the fee was aimed at gradually engaging me in co-operation. The talks were becoming more open. The British started to show interest in everything: my connections, financial opportunities, if I had direct access to the Russian president's administration, as well as contacts with officers of the Federal Security Service, the Federal Bodyguard Service and the Foreign Intelligence Service. They were especially interested in an opportunity to get information about the FSB activities in the so-called English direction. "They openly begun to recruit me as a British intelligence agent. The British, in essence, suggested that I gather any discrediting information about President Vladimir Putin and members of his family. For example, it was proposed that I gather information about a state official, through whom they intended to get discrediting information about the president. In particular, they intended to lure this state official to London in order to get discrediting information about the president in exchange for silence about his personal bank accounts. I will tell investigators of the prosecutor-general's office who I'm talking about. "For maintaining an undercover connection, I was given a British mobile phone, which I was supposed to use for calling from Moscow to London. From bad to worse: Litvinenko gave me an edition of Yevgeny Grishkovets' book Rubashka and told me that now we have to use cipher like in spy movies and to encode a text using numbers of pages, paragraphs and lines. "One has to be a complete idiot not to understand that under the pretext of developing a joint business, a banal recruiting was going on with concrete political and intelligence goals with regard to Russia and its president. "I do not regard myself a passionate supporter of President Putin and I have my personal reasons for that, which many can guess about. But I was taught to defend the motherland, not to betray it. During another meeting with Litvinenko, I told him straight everything I thought about that and said that I was not interested in such business." ON ALLEGEDLY BEING MADE A SCAPEGOAT Mr Lugovoi said the British had already made up their minds that he was guilty of killing Mr Litvinenko. "For a long time I was constrained by my obligations to the Crown Prosecution Service. I was willingly co-operating with the crown prosecutor's office and I was answering every question. I was also answering all the questions that the Scotland Yard investigators were asking me. Even then I had a feeling that all the questions were just a formality and the accused were already determined, that is myself and Dmitry Kovtun. But I tried to keep all the obligations... and I was made a scapegoat." He said the British had hoped he would stay silent, but that he was not going to allow them to push their agenda. "Just think of it: they have found a Russian James Bond, who enters into nuclear centres and in cold blood poisons a friend of his and, at the same time, poisons himself, his friends, children and wife. And all that was done single-handedly by the terrorist Lugovoi. Who - as a result - loses his business and clients. And the main question: what for? Where is the motive for my crime? "London was hoping that I would keep silent as I have not been extradited... and that all the questions would resolve themselves: I would be branded as a criminal; Berezovsky would get a very good reason not to be extradited to Russia; Scotland Yard and the British special services would save face in the eyes of their taxpayers; while Russia and its leadership would be discredited for a long time. "Only none of this will happen. I am prepared to lose even more money, but I will fight for my honest name. I understand that if I went to London, I - for the sake of preserving somebody's professional honour - would be convicted, no matter what. That is why in the very near future, as we have done before, I will hire serious lawyers in London in order to defend my honest name in the British law-enforcement agencies. "If the British authorities refuse to conduct a fair trial, I will be prepared to appeal to the international court in The Hague." ON WHY HE BELIEVES THE CHARGES AGAINST HIM ARE WRONG "Now I would like to return to the issue of [Litvinenko's] death. First, I don't think you have to be a lawyer to understand that a motive is needed to carry out a crime like this. Sasha [Litvinenko] was not my enemy. I did not have any opinion on what he was doing in London, which books he was writing and who he was criticising. I have been a businessman for a long time now, and this didn't really interest me. "Second, for some reason all British newspapers are saying that the poisoning took place on 1 November, but Litvinenko and I met twice in October. Moreover, we met in his home in summer, when his wife Marina was away. By the way, Berezovsky didn't know of that meeting. It was almost the ideal place for a poisoning. However, when conditions were ideal, it didn't happen. But in a bar with a lot of people, when he could have failed to turn up, in the presence of dozens of witnesses, it happened. This means that someone wanted us to be seen together in the Millennium Bar. "Third, those who know Sasha can confirm that he never drank or smoked. Neither I nor Dima [Dmitry Kovtun] can remember whether he ordered anything, tea or water, because we were preparing to go to a football game at the time and, since it was cold, had drunk a good amount of spirits. What kind of idiot poisoner would it take to act in such a primitive way? Again, somebody wanted to set us up. "Fourth, if the poisoning took place on 1 November, then how did the polonium leave traces [changes track], I underline, it only left traces in places in London where I and Litvinenko met in October. And why was the polonium found in aircraft on which Dima and I returned to Moscow and Germany respectively in October 2006? My only conclusion is that we were purposely marked with polonium in order to use us in a political scandal later. "[Fifth,] I came to London with my wife and children to go to a football game. As a consequence, all of them were checked for polonium poisoning and the results were not comforting. They were tested together with me in the hospital. What kind of monster would you have to be to expose the lives of your children and your wife to such threats? "Sixth, already in summer 2006 Litvinenko started giving me various little gifts. When I was tested in the hospital, all my things were checked. It turned out that souvenirs and a number of documents which Litvinenko had given me long before 1 November were splattered with polonium. I told our investigators in the Prosecutor-General's Office about this, but they said that their British colleagues weren't interested for some reason. It is possible that Litvinenko himself left the traces (of polonium), but this theory was unacceptable to the British justice from the very beginning. "Seventh, it is no longer a secret that all my meetings with Litvinenko were thoroughly followed by the UK secret services. Why didn't they follow up Litvinenko's poisoning and allow all of us to leave Britain without punishment? Why has the address where we met British agents, [names omitted], not been included among the dozens of places in London mentioned in the media where polonium has been found? I would like to know whether polonium traces was found in that office, which is in essence one of their secret meeting places." AND AUDIO NEWS 'not harming relations' Litvinenko widow 'very pleased' CPS statement on Litvinenko Relations between Britain and Russia will be tense after Litvinenko decision Key locations in the investigation into the ex-spy's death Profile: Russia's secret police Litvinenko case: Key names blames US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6708527.stm Ireland | Super powers for 13 lucky schools GMT 14:40 powers for 13 lucky schools Science is one of the areas of specialism Thirteen more secondary and grammar schools are to be given extra funding to concentrate on specific subjects. Last April, 12 schools were the first in Northern Ireland to get the stamp of approval as specialist schools. Special subjects include mathematics, computing, visual and performing arts, languages, science and sport. The schools get £100 extra per pupil for four years, plus a grant worth as much as £100,000. The schools also have to raise £25,000 in sponsorship. They will be expected to share their expertise with other schools in their area. Twelve other schools which applied for the funding were turned down. The 13 successful schools are: Hazelwood Integrated College: visual arts (Newtownabbey) Portora Royal: performing and visual arts (Enniskillen) Carrickfergus College: business and enterprise St Patrick's and St Brigid's College: business and enterprise (Claudy) Grosvenor Grammar School: languages (Belfast) Belfast High School: languages (Newtownabbey) St Columb's College: mathematics and computing (Derry) Loreto College: science (Coleraine) St Patrick's College: science (Maghera) St Mary's Grammar: science (Magherafelt) St Colman's College: science (Newry) Dromore High School: science Cross and Passion College: sport (Ballycastle) schools' £3.5m boost 12 Apr 07 | Northern Ireland NI specialist schools announced 14 Mar 06 | Northern Ireland NI specialist schools shortlisted 21 Nov 05 | Northern Ireland Education 'must meet challenges' 08 Mar 06 | Northern Ireland TOP NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/west_yorkshire/6708605.stm | West Yorkshire | City's £8m pledge to fix potholes GMT 14:50 £8m pledge to fix potholes Nearly £8m is being spent on repairs to poorly-maintained private roads across Leeds, the city council has revealed. In the last two years the authority has adopted 30 roads, at a cost of £2.6m. A further £5.2m has been set aside for the next four years. After a street is adopted - with the approval of at least 50% of residents - the council takes responsibility for its future maintenance. The council said the move would see road standards improve dramatically. Councillor Andrew Cater, who is responsible for highways, said: "This investment programme is a clear signal of the council's intent to improve the road network across the city. "The success of the programme has meant there is now a waiting list for roads to be adopted but we are working as quickly and efficiently as we can to complete as many as soon as possible." travel, leisure and much more from the BBC website for Leeds WEST YORKSHIRE STORIES Five consortia lodge Leeds intent City's £8m pledge to fix potholes Lindsay website gets 7,000 hits
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6707621.stm | Africa | Zambia's Chiluba 'to stand trial' GMT 14:47 Chiluba 'to stand trial' Mr Chiluba's suits were paid by public funds, a UK judge has said Zambia's ex-President Frederick Chiluba is to stand trial on corruption charges in Zambia, a Lusaka court has ruled. Magistrate Jones Chinyama rejected arguments that Mr Chiluba, 64, was too ill to be prosecuted for stealing $488,000 during his time in office. He suffers from a heart condition and was discharged from hospital on Tuesday after collapsing at his home last week. Earlier in May, a UK court ordered Mr Chiluba to pay back $39m of state funds he allegedly took while in power. The civil action was brought in Britain because the allegedly stolen money passed through bank accounts in London. UK Judge Peter Smith said Zambians should know that when the former president appeared wearing his trademark designer clothes, they were paid for with public funds. Mr Chiluba, who served two terms as Zambia's president from 1991 to 2001, denounced the verdict in the civil case as "racist" and "obscene". His handpicked successor, President Levy Mwanawasa, has been pursuing an anti-corruption drive against Mr Chiluba's former government. The president has offered to pardon Mr Chiluba if he admits the allegations and returns 75% of the cash he allegedly stole, but the ex-leader has always denied the allegations. The court said Mr Chiluba's trial should go ahead after doctors recently examined him in hospital. Last November, the trial was postponed to allow Mr Chiluba to travel to South Africa for medical treatment. is 'stable' in hospital 25 Chiluba attacks 'racist' UK court 10 Zambia's Chiluba guilty of graft 04 Zambia's Chiluba unfit for trial 17 Nov 06 | Africa Chiluba fury at seizure of suits 14 Mar 05 | Africa Chiluba's legacy to Zambia 19 Dec 01 | Africa 29 Nov 02 | Country profiles issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions Zambia's Chiluba 'to stand trial'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6708135.stm | Alex Salmond makes hot seat debut GMT 14:45 Salmond makes hot seat debut BBC Scotland news website Alex Salmond faced questions from political rivals You know the old saying - ask a stupid question . . . And so was the case as Scotland's new leader Alex Salmond made his debut in the hot seat at First Minister's Question Time. During his grilling in the Scottish Parliament on all the hot issues of the day, those seemingly pointless questions normally asked by rival party leaders began to take on a new meaning. Former First Minister Jack McConnell got the first crack at his successor, who now sits in the Scottish Labour leader's old seat. Mr McConnell, who now sits in Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon's old seat, began by asking when the next cabinet would meet, a traditional FMQ opening shot. Mr Salmond, who has yet to receive a congratulatory call from Tony Blair on his new job, replied: "I thank Jack McConnell for not asking me when I last met the prime minister". Someone had to ask the question though, and it was indeed posed by Scottish Tory leader Annabel Goldie, who by the way has not changed seats. Alex Salmond said he had been congratulated by the queen Mr Salmond lamented: "He never phones, he never writes . . . " "The first minister's Downing Street dancing partner is nothing if not coquettish," offered Miss Goldie. In fact, Mr Salmond went on to say he had been congratulated by a variety of people, from Her Majesty the Queen to the Rev Ian Paisley. Once the questioning got under way, Mr McConnell, in a mocking echo of the SNP's campaign slogan, told Mr Salmond: "It's time - it's time for clarity." Mr McConnell, who put in a good performance considering his new circumstances, accused the first minister of failing to answer questions on transport, adding that Scotland had endured "a week of spinning" by the SNP on a variety of issues. But Mr Salmond hit back at his arch political rival, quipping to MSPs: "Jack's questions are longer than his answers used to be." The new first minister was in his element, but perhaps slightly more subdued than he has previously been seen - but a glimpse of the old Alex was still there. appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' OAP billed for home's demolition
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/6707059.stm | Superbug problem 'underestimated' GMT 15:34 South West hospital trusts have been highlighted by a Conservative MP as struggling to tackle cases of the superbug clostridium difficile. MP for Welwyn and Hatfield Grant Shapps used figures obtained via the Freedom of Information Act. North Bristol and Gloucestershire hospital trusts had the highest number of cases among the trusts which provided figures. Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust said it had been misrepresented. Shaun Ellion, the medical director for Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust, added that the trust was continuing to work to get cases down to zero. All the hospitals involved said they were tackling the problem with better hygiene controls and prescription advice. The MP for Welwyn and Hatfield has not received figures from every health trust but has called on the government "to get to grips with the problem". Mr Shapps said figures were only available for patients aged over 65. "We now know that C-Diff infects eight times as many people as the far better-known MRSA and it actually kills twice as many patients. "I'm calling on the government to recognise and then get to grips with the true scale of the problem," he said. The Health Protection Agency said it could not comment on the figures as it had not yet seen the report. AND AUDIO NEWS Bug victim tells her story County guide, sport and more from BBC Gloucestershire City guide, travel news and more from the BBC Bristol website Bug outbreak at hospital 'over' 23 May 07 | England jailed over gang shootings Boy's custody death was suicide MP fined over disabled parking e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lancashire/6709135.stm | Lancashire | Boy's custody death was suicide GMT 17:46 custody death was suicide Adam Rickwood had a history of mental health problems A boy found dead at a privately-run secure unit 150 miles from his home committed suicide, a jury has ruled. Adam Rickwood, 14, became the youngest person to die in custody in Britain in modern times, in 2004. Adam, from Burnley, Lancashire, was on remand at the Hassockfield Secure Training Unit, County Durham. He wrote to his mother saying he would kill himself if forced to stay in the unit, the jury at Chester-le-Street Magistrates' Court heard. Adam was found dead about a month after being sent on remand to the unit on a wounding charge, in July 2004. He had suffered from mental health problems, drink and drug abuse and had suicidal tendencies, the court heard. Jurors deliberated for almost a week after the month-long hearing, before ruling that he intended to take his own life. I will probably try to kill myself and I will probably succeed this time The last letter the teenager wrote to his mother, Carol Pounder, was read to the jury. It said: "I need to be at home with you. I need to be at home in my own bed or my head will crack up. "I will probably try to kill myself and I will probably succeed this time. I can't stay in here." The jury found Hassockfield was an appropriate secure training centre for Adam. Jurors also found that staff at the centre had acted appropriately while he was there and in the hours before his death. The jury had heard that in the hours before his death Adam had been restrained by staff using a "nose distraction technique" in which upward pressure is placed on the nose to cause a short pain. Durham coroner Andrew Tweddle said he would make a number of recommendations, including about the use of restraint techniques. He said that a review was necessary "so there can be no ambiguity in anyone's mind whatsoever - young persons, staff, management, the Youth Justice Board and indeed the government." A spokesman for Serco, which runs the centre, said after the inquest: "This has been a very thorough investigation into the circumstances of Adam's tragic death. "It has demonstrated that our staff do a difficult job and provided a very high standard of care when Adam was at Hassockfield. "The coroner has made detailed recommendations, some of which we have already implemented, and we will of course look closely at the rest." and features on the BBC's Lancashire website Travel, leisure, webcams and much more from the BBC website for Wear Teenager's family in inquest call 27 Oct 06 | Lancashire Custody death probe changes urged 02 Nov 04 | UK Funeral of custody death teenager 18 Aug 04 | Lancashire 'Child jails' put under spotlight 11 Aug 04 | England Inquiry call after custody death 10 Aug 04 | England custody death was suicide Missing teenager 'was strangled' Woman quizzed over fatal stabbing e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/magazine/6709189.stm | Your home movies of the 1960s GMT 16:08 home movies of the 1960s The Magazine is compiling a people's history of modern Britain - featuring your written memories, photos and videos. Here is a selection of your home movies from the 1960s. You can now upload your videos of the past to the BBC's modern history group on YouTube. This could be a home video of the 60s or an interview today of someone talking about the past. This was cine footage filmed by Harold Watson in 1965 and later copied to video. It records when he and his brother Dave, then 21, returned to their hometown to see their family. "Hope you enjoy this little movie. It always brings back fond memories for me," says Dave. Shot by Fred Collinson, an engineer from Hull who made many hours of family films with one of the few cine cameras in Goole at that time. This one was submitted by his nephew Robert Ward, whose father Bruce is painting the front gate of their home in Dunhill Road, Goole, with Robert?s mother, Molly. Fred?s wife Dorothy is watching with her young daughter. The older man is a family friend, Billy Espin. Robert Ward recalls: "The double gates were new and had been installed after a neighbour had agreed that the privet hedge between the two houses could be taken up and the two paths concreted over to make a drive." This was submitted by David Fieldsend and records when Hipper Primary School in Chesterfield was being closed down and moved to Hady. From Hipper to Hady e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/tayside_and_central/6708469.stm | Tayside and Central | Staff sorrow as osprey chick dies GMT 15:59 sorrow as osprey chick dies A webcam has been recording the progress of the chicks One of the first osprey chicks of the season has died eight days after hatching at a Perthshire reserve. Its death was watched on CCTV by "devastated" conservation staff at Loch of the Lowes in Dunkeld. The chick was one of three to be hatched at the reserve last week. The eggs had been laid on Easter Monday. Staff, who had been taking part in a 24-hour protection programme called Osprey Watch, said the chick died in the nest at 0500 BST on Thursday. The youngest and smallest of the three chicks "seemed to fade away" as volunteers manning the programme watched events live on CCTV. Nature can be cruel and it is always going to be a case of survival of the fittest Peter Ferns, visitor centre manager at Loch of the Lowes, said the death was a blow to osprey conservation. "It is difficult not to form some emotional attachment at some level to these chicks," he said. "But at the end of the day, nature can be cruel and it is always going to be a case of survival of the fittest. "In a highly competitive nest, the chicks fight for attention and food from their parents and it is often the largest and loudest that receive the lion's share. "The size and development of this chick was always going to make things difficult but not impossible." Mr Ferns added that the surviving chicks seemed to be strong and active and staff had no concerns about them at present. "We're just hoping that the weather improves as this must have been a contributing factor to the demise of the younger chick," he said. Since 1969 when the first pair returned to Loch of the Lowes, the reserve has successfully helped to raise 66 chicks on the site, with 48 produced by the current female. number 47 for elderly osprey 17 Apr 07 | Tayside and Central Egg delight over 'lucky' osprey 16 Apr 07 | Tayside and Central Ospreys return to nest in Gwynedd 29 Mar 07 | North West Wales Love nests to attract rare birds 18 Mar 07 | Cumbria Royal Society for the Protection of Birds TAYSIDE AND CENTRAL STORIES Helicopter 'rebuilt' before crash Farm worker jailed for sex crimes BNP Paribas announces jobs plans e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/highlands_and_islands/6707219.stm | Highlands and Islands | Hard life for African street children GMT 15:58 life for African street children BBC Scotland news website Unicef estimates that more than 200 million children are living on the streets globally. In Uganda, the problem is exacerbated by the fact that rebel groups are snatching homeless youngsters and forcing them to become child soldiers. The former street children learn to build up trust In Pictures: African street children Marsali Campbell, a nurse from Portree in the Isle of Skye, has been working for a mission in Kampala, the country's capital, where she helps to turn around the lives of these vulnerable children. The 38-year-old, who has worked as a nurse for 20 years, spent time at Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and has a diploma in child health, specialising in children with cancer and HIV. She first went to Uganda in 2001, having already spent a year working with poor children in India. A missionary with the African Inland Mission, she has most recently been working with Dwelling Places, which helps street children, abandoned babies and high risk slum families. Many of them have HIV or have lost parents to Aids. "The heart of what we do is to try to rescue children from the street," Marsali said. "Many suffer from depravity, disease, hunger and abuse. We see newborns to teenagers and families headed by children." Marsali has witnessed five-year-olds living alone on the street and has even seen teenage girls who have spent their whole life on the streets having their own babies while homeless. These are broken, troubled children who have only ever known suffering She has also come across numerous abandoned babies. They have been found on the street, in dustbins, tied up in plastic bags and found in pit latrines and swamps. A particular threat in Uganda is the Land's Resistance Army (LRA), a rebel group which has committed numerous abuses and atrocities, including the abduction, rape, maiming, and killing of civilians, including children. Many of the children are trained as guerrillas. The LRA has also abducted young girls as sex and labour slaves. Other children, mainly girls, have been reported to have been sold, traded, or given as gifts by the LRA to arms dealers in Sudan. In addition to being beaten, raped, and forced to march until exhausted, abducted children are forced to participate in the killing of other children who attempt to escape. Amnesty International reported that without child abductions, the LRA would have few combatants. More than 6,000 children were abducted during 1998, although many of those abducted later escaped or were released. There are currently estimated to be about 3,000 children still held captive by the LRA. "We see lots of children who have been abducted by the rebels and escaped," Marsali said. "They often carry a lifetime of guilt. Many of the children have lived their whole lives on the streets "We also have children whose whole village has been massacred and they have managed to hide. "Others are on the streets because of abuse within their own families. They come with wounds, burns and scars. "These are broken, troubled children who have only ever known suffering." Apart from using her nursing skills to help the children, Marsali has to build up the youngsters' trust. "I go and talk to them on the streets about hygiene and sexually transmitted diseases," she said. Many of the children have HIV or Aids or have lost parents to the virus and have been rejected by their communities. Latest figures show there are 15 million orphans due to HIV - 12.5 million of those are in Sub Saharan Africa. "The pandemic of HIV is a major contribution for the number of children ending up on the streets," Marsali said. Dwelling Places rehabilitates and educates the children they have rescued from the streets. It's great to see kids grow up that wouldn't have survived otherwise "A lot of these children have never known a home, having a kitchen, and bathroom, or even just to feel protected," Marsali said. "Some of them may have HIV but receive no medication while others have the virus unknowingly. Others have seizures or are almost blind and need glasses. Most have never had any dental care." The youngsters, many of whom have only the rags they were found in, go through a two-year rehabilitation programme. There are three rehab homes, one for the boys, one for the girls and another for the babies. Here, the children are encouraged to sleep in a bed, learn to bathe and how to clean their teeth. "Street children have a reputation for being dirty but they have had no access to soap and have just never been taught the basics," Marsali said. "They don't know the boundaries of hygiene and violence. "The word holistic is very important. We need to get to the heart of these kids so they have a future and some hope." Most children initially go to an interim school where they learn the basics of reading and writing before moving onto a mainstream school. However, some of the teenage boys who feel they are too old for school receive vocational training. If it is not possible for them to return to their own communities they go into independent living where a few of them live together. Marsali welcomes some of the teenagers into her home Marsali said: "The ones that have done well go back to the streets to talk to the other kids. They're the best advocates." All the Dwelling Places staff are allocated a group of teenagers who they welcome into their own homes. "This is so we can really get to know the kids," Marsali said. "At my place they can just be like normal teenagers, listening to music and watching movies. "I also have teenage girls around with their babies. This allows them to bath their babies and bond with them. And its just good for them to hear they're doing a great job." Some of the situations Marsali finds herself in can be dangerous but she finds that she is often given protection from the children themselves. "They will tell others who I am so not to steal from me and they'll protect my car when I'm out," she said. "Some of them are high on drugs and can seem aggressive but they are never aggressive towards me." She has also worked in volatile areas such as Karamoja in the north east of the country where there are a lot of problems with drought and cattle rustling warriors who kill many of the men. "There are a lot of guns out there and you never lose the sense of danger," Marsali said. She said the most rewarding part of her work is seeing the children change. "Just to see them putting on shoes for the first time, sleeping in a bed, going to school and having the freedom to play," she said. "They are proud and happy and just shine. "It's also great to see kids grow up that wouldn't have survived otherwise. "To see an abandoned baby grow up and become adopted, turning into a happy, healthy child or to see a child dying from HIV on drug therapy and doing well at school. "Or just to see a teenager opening up after being full of anger and frustration. To see them learn to trust again and have relationships. "Or to tell a girl who has been raped or abused with no self esteem that she is important and beautiful. To be able to hug them with normal love. That is amazing." Marsali is currently giving a number of talks to churches and community groups in Scotland about her work and is hoping to help get Dwelling Places registered as a charity in the UK. After six years in Uganda, she will be returning to the country next year and plans to open a mobile clinic, providing free health care. She also hopes her work will be expanded into more remote areas and into other African countries such as the Congo and Central African Republic. "We need to give these kids a safe place," she said. "We owe it to them." Pictures - African street Children 31 May 07 | In Pictures Summit displaces Uganda street children 21 Feb 07 | Africa Uganda's cattle clashes kill 50 15 Feb 07 | Africa Surviving Uganda's cattle wars 19 Jan 07 | Africa Caring for Uganda's Aids orphans 05 Feb 07 | Africa Uganda's HIV success questioned 21 Sep 04 | Africa 19 Jan 07 | Country profiles HIGHLANDS AND ISLANDS STORIES Loch Ness in world heritage bid New homes and shops plan unveiled Seal pup centre needs medics e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/country_profiles/1237845.stm | Asia-Pacific | Country profiles | Country profile: Thailand GMT 15:37 is a country of mountains, tropical rainforests and flat plains. Religion, the monarchy and the military have helped to shape its society and politics. For many years agriculture was the main employer. But from the 1980s a thriving, rapidly-growing economy attracted large numbers of Thais to the expanding industrial and services sectors. The bubble burst in 1997 with the south-east Asian financial crisis. Stock and property prices plummeted, dragging down the currency and leading to bankruptcies, recession and unemployment. The government of the time - under Chuan Leekpai - worked with the IMF to reform the battered economy. But the 1997 experience caused many Thais to regard international finance with deep distrust. Mr Chuan lost the 2001 elections to an opponent who promised to help people with their daily difficulties. Cranes ply the skyline in the congested capital, Bangkok Bangkok expanded rapidly with the influx of workers during the boom years. It is one of Asia's most vibrant, and heavily-congested, cities. The large-scale sex industry which flourishes in Bangkok contributed to the incidence of HIV infection - a major concern for the Thai government. Thailand has taken the lead in the region in distributing cheaper generic drugs for Aids sufferers and awareness campaigns are credited with reducing the number of new infections. Thailand has a minority Muslim population, concentrated in its southern provinces. A decades-old separatist struggle in the region - which abated in the 1980s - flared again in 2004. The violence, mostly targeting members of Thailand's majority Buddhist population, has claimed more than 1,500 lives. Though its recent governments have been civilian and democratically-elected, Thailand has seen turbulent times. The military governed, on and off, between 1947 and 1992 - a period characterised by coups, coup attempts and popular protests. Thai cuisine is known throughout the world for its use of hot, sweet and sour spices. Sculptures of the Buddha in sitting or reclining positions are also characteristic of Thailand, as is classical dance. 64.9 million (via UN, 2006) 513,115 sq km (198,115 sq miles) 66 years (men), 74 years (women) (UN) 1 baht = 100 satangs Food and live animals, office equipment, textiles and clothing, rubber US $2,750 (World Bank, 2006) King Adulyadej and Queen Sirikit Thailand is a constitutional monarchy. Its king, Bhumibol Adulyadej, assumed the throne in June 1946 and is the world's longest-reigning monarch. The royal family is revered by many Thais. The military, led by army commander-in-chief General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, seized power in a bloodless coup while Thaksin Shinawatra, the prime minister, was attending the UN General Assembly on 19 September 2006. Coup leader General Sonthi Boonyaratglin The coup was condemned abroad but the new leadership was endorsed by the king. It was Thailand's first coup in 15 years but its 18th since it became a constitutional monarchy in 1932. The coup leaders, who call themselves the Council for National Security, said they seized power to unite the nation after months of political turmoil and promised to return the country to civilian rule. They introduced an interim constitution which gives them the power to hire and fire the government as well as the acting parliament. Surayud Chulanont will govern until elections promised for late 2007 It also allows them to select the people who will draw up a new constitution and to vet the draft before it is subjected to a referendum. Retired General Surayud Chulanont was appointed as interim prime minister. He will govern until elections which are expected in December 2007. Mr Surayud gained a reputation for incorruptibility during his four-decade military career. He became army chief in 1998 and resigned in 2003. As a member of the Privy Council, he is a senior royal advisor. The government and military control nearly all the national terrestrial television networks and operate many of Thailand's radio networks. The radio market, particularly in Bangkok, is fiercely competitive. There are more than 60 stations in and around the capital. The media are free to criticise government policies, and cover instances of corruption and human rights abuses, but journalists tend to exercise self-censorship regarding the military, the monarchy, the judiciary and other sensitive issues. The print media are largely privately-run, with a handful of Thai-language dailies accounting for most newspaper sales. A series of media reforms are under way, aimed at reducing military interest and influence in the media and opening up more opportunities to the private sector. - mass-circulation Thai-language daily - mass-circulation Thai-language daily - operated by the Mass Communications Organization of Thailand (MCOT), a government agency - owned by Royal Thai Army - owned by Royal Thai Army - operated by government agency MCOT - part-owned by prime minister's office Television of Thailand (TVT) Channel 11 - operated by National Broadcasting Services of Thailand (NBT), part of government Public Relations Department - national network and external service operated by National Broadcasting Services of Thailand (NBT), part of government Public Relations Department - run by government agency MCOT; operates stations in Bangkok and provincial networks Army Radio - network owned by Royal Thai Army - run by MCOT AND AUDIO NEWS A chronology of key events A GUIDE TO ASIA-PACIFIC Compiled by BBC Monitoring Thailand prime minister sworn in Thaksin military allies sidelined Generals seek image change What next for Thaksin? Wait and see for tourist sector Thailand's new PM is a well-respected army veteran Q&A: Thailand's coup impact Political worries cloud economy Profile: Thai coup leader Thai farmer: 'Thaksin helped us' Thaksin's home town reflects Surreal scenes in Bangkok Views on Thai coup Thai bombs raise political stakes 08 Jan 07 | Asia-Pacific Bangkok a haven for Asian migrants 08 Nov 06 | Asia-Pacific Life as a Thai sex worker 22 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific In pictures: River trade 08 Mar 07 | In Pictures Violence and vendettas in Thai south 06 Aug 06 | Asia-Pacific In Depth: Asia quake disaster COUNTRY PROFILES STORIES Country profile: East Timor e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6709209.stm | EMI strikes a deal with YouTube GMT 17:09 strikes a deal with YouTube EMI bands such as the Rolling Stones will be available on YouTube EMI has signed a deal with YouTube that will allow its users to access videos by EMI artists. It means all four of the world's major music firms are now YouTube partners. The terms of the agreement should eventually allow users to incorporate recordings by EMI artists into their own projects. The deal follows a string of lawsuits by companies who accuse YouTube of allowing its users to pirate their copyrighted works. The biggest threat comes from entertainment giant Viacom Media which is suing YouTube for $1bn (£505m). The US group - which owns MTV and Nickelodeon - claims that the website uses its shows illegally. "We're excited to add EMI Music's stellar roster of artists' content to our site and make it available to our community," said Chad Hurley, chief executive of YouTube. EMI and YouTube have agreed to work together to develop ways in which EMI-owned recordings can be incorporated into user generated content by YouTube users. News of the deal comes just 10 days after EMI agreed to be taken over by private equity group Terra Firma for £2.4bn. Google bought the video-sharing website for $1.65bn (£883m) in October 2006. TV to show YouTube content 31 May 07 | Business YouTube site 'blocked' in Morocco 29 May 07 | Africa Music giant EMI agrees takeover 21 May 07 | Business YouTube fights Viacom legal bid 01 May 07 | Business EMI 'opens its books to suitors' 18 May 07 | Business Cost-cutting success bolsters EMI 18 Apr 07 | Business economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6708917.stm | In full: Tony Blair's Africa speech GMT 15:37 full: Tony Blair's Africa speech Nelson Mandela thanked Mr Blair for his support Blair speech in full The full text of a speech given by Tony Blair on his week-long tour of Africa. I am delighted to be here in South Africa. I am particularly delighted to be here at UNISA through which many of the ANC leaders were educated and today plans to launch a new centre for genocide and holocaust studies. And to have the opportunity to speak to such a distinguished audience. Africa is close to my heart. I have made friends right across this amazing and inspiring continent. Africa has been at the top of my foreign policy for the last ten 10 years. From the very beginning I wanted to forge a new partnership with African leaders and countries. Not based on rich and poor or donor and recipient but based on common values of justice, democracy and human rights; a partnership of trust and equality. Above all, and most controversially, Africa has been a prime example of a foreign policy that has been thoroughly interventionist. I believe in the power of political action to make the world better and the moral obligation to use it. I do not believe that in this time - the early 21st Century - international politics can be just about nations' interests, narrowly and traditionally defined. I believe that now, today, our self interest is in substantial part defined by the well-being of others; that the consequence of globalisation is that our best chance of security and prosperity lies in advancing freedom, opportunity and justice for all. It follows that where oppression, poverty and injustice exist, it is not only our duty but also in our self-interest to do what we can to bring about change for the better. Nowhere is that clearer than Africa. African conflict creates millions of refugees in search of a better life. African poverty deprives this continent - and millions of people - of the chance to succeed, and deprives us of successful and stable partners for economic growth and the benign exploitation of commodities and natural resources. Failed or struggling African states are breeding grounds for the very extremism that threatens us everywhere. African peaceful co-existence between Muslim and Christian shows how different and better the world can be. It is easy for people to mock the pretensions of an interventionist policy; and intervention never fares as well as we would like. But consider the alternative and then make the choice. Suppose we did nothing. Actually we do not need to hypothesise. We did do nothing or little as Rwanda slid into genocide; as HIV/AIDS grew; as Liberia and Sierra Leone descended into gangsterism; as governments in the 1980s and 1990s faltered or strayed from a proper path. The international action of the past few years hasn't transformed Africa; but as I shall say later, it has undoubtedly made it better. And there is the possibility now in a different and more strategic approach, based on partnership rather than aid alone, of real transformational change in the years to come. For that to happen, the wealthy nations must hold to the path set out in the MDGs and the Gleneagles G8; and Africa must take its responsibilities seriously and develop in the way NEPAD and the G8 partnership provides. We have to stay with it for the long haul; commit and re-commit; never let it be said we are not trying, even if it cannot always be said we are succeeding. We now have a broad political consensus for Africa in the UK. Excellent. We need the same in the EU. We need each G8 to be bolder than the last. If we do this, and Africa responds as an equal partner, we will have set a strategic goal that in time we will achieve; and in a continent in which the power of China is rising dramatically, we can work with China to serve the development of Africa in a way which benefits us all. But if we give up, we will lose the chance in this continent - rich as it is - though its people are poor - for our values to take root. It would be a calamitous misjudgement. So, to what ends should our intervention and support be fashioned? First, we must address more urgently the issue of conflict resolution and peace-keeping. I have come here today from Sierra Leone. When I last visited five years ago, Sierra Leone was a failed state. Emerging from a horrific conflict which saw 60,000 killed. 10,000 child soldiers. 1/4 million women and girls raped. Others brutally maimed, hands cut off. A war fuelled by the fight for diamonds and other commodities. We all felt despair at the wickedness that a small group of people could inflict on their compatriots. But I also felt proud that Africa and the international community responded, with ECOWAS and UN troops, and ultimately the UK's own troops. We now must build on this window of opportunity and work with the elected government of Sierra Leone to help them build a better country for the people of Sierra Leone. Not easy. War destroyed the fabric of Sierra Leone. And state building is the hardest of challenges. Visiting again, I was again struck by the beauty of Sierra Leone and also its enormous potential of human, mineral and agricultural resources, among the richest in Africa. 70 per cent of people are below the poverty line. One quarter in extreme poverty. Sierra Leone is still 176 out of 177 countries on the UN's Human Development Indicator scale. Nevertheless, I visited a school, met children determined to get an education and get on, benefiting from the decision of the Sierra Leone government to abolish user fees. School attendance has doubled since the end of the war. And older children and adults who have missed out are seizing the opportunity to go back to school. I met a group of entrepreneurs benefiting from funds from a new private sector Venture Capital Fund. And technical assistance provided by the UK. However hard the current challenges, and however little the people of Sierra Leone have to build on, if conflict had continued, even these gains would not have been possible. That is why the UNAMSIL deployment between 1999 and 2005 was so critical. It literally pulled a country back from the brink. There is a new determination across this continent to tackle conflict. Thanks to this determination the number of violent conflicts in Africa has reduced from 14 in 1997 to two major conflicts today. In 10 years, Africa has strengthened the tools it has to tackle conflict. And developed plans for improving Africa's capacity to deploy peacekeepers. We now need to strengthen African peacekeeping further. This is the next phase of the partnership. The UK has trained 11,000 peacekeeping troops in the last three years, most from Africa. We will continue to ensure that we and our G8 partners hold to the commitment of training 75,000 peacekeeping troops by 2010. It's why the UK is supporting the AU to develop a Stand-by Force. And it's why yesterday, President Kabbah, President Johnson-Sirleaf and I, together announced our determination to ensure the money is in place to support AU operations. It is unacceptable that the AU operation in Darfur limps from month to month, from financial crisis to financial crisis. It is unacceptable that brave men and women, in AU operations, do not have the equipment they need to do the job. It is unacceptable that they do not receive the pay or per diems they deserve because African countries lack the money. So we will work together for a mechanism at the UN which secures UN funding for AU operations. We will propose to our EU partners a mechanism for funding rapid deployment, to ensure African Union troops can move quickly when required. No conflict demonstrates the need for action more than Darfur. 200,000 dead. 4 million dependent on food aid. 2.1 million displaced persons within Sudan. But also over 230,000 refugees have fled into Chad, joining 140,000 internally displaced Chadians, and almost 50,000 refugees from CAR fleeing the fighting in their own country. It is wrong that President Bashir, intent on bombing his way to a solution, is determined to obstruct any effort made to reinforce the AU's ability to improve security and stability. We must offer President Bashir a choice. Engage with us on a solution. Or, if you reject responsibility for the people of Darfur, then we will table and put to a vote sanctions against the regime. I believe we have a responsibility to protect. Along with the MDGs, these are two of the most important decisions the modern UN has ever made. We also need to redouble our partnership on the fight against poverty and, most important, to fight the causes of poverty and disease, poor education, bad governance. 2005 was a landmark year for commitments for Africa: $50 billion extra aid per year by 2010, of which half would go to Africa, 100 per cent debt cancellation, Universal access to AIDS treatment, Free basic health and education, Supporting the Africa Peer Review Mechanism and ratifying the Convention Against Corruption Training of AU forces - to name but a few. It marked another step in the transition in the way we do development. Now we advocate a compact, or partnership, between donors and developing countries, a partnership based on NEPAD, in respect of which Thabo Mbeki played such a crucial role. But the most challenging part is implementing what was agreed. Getting rich countries - and African governments - to keep their promises. Almost two years on there is progress: Aid is up, but not enough to fulfil the promises made. $38 billion of debt relief. 18 countries in Africa have benefited. Zambia used its debt relief to abolish health user fees, giving tens of thousands of people access to free healthcare. New, innovative ways of financing development, frontloading assistance so poor countries get the benefit now. The International Finance Facility for Immunisation (IFFIm) has already raised $1 billion out of a target of $4 billion over ten years for new and basic vaccines - which should vaccinate more than 500 million people, and save 10 million lives. Progress toward universal access to Aids drugs. Ten-fold increase in people on ARVs in Sub-Saharan Africa, now totalling more than 1 million, 23 per cent of those needing treatment. In 2005, this saved more than 250,000 lives. On education UK has committed £8.5 billion over next ten years. Donors have pledged $1.1 billion to the Fast Track Initiative, of which almost 1 billion is for 2006-08, which will put over 3 million more children into school. Africa has had successes. 13 democratic elections in last 2 years (though 11 which weren't). 26 countries participating in APRM. 3 countries reviewed, and two more were reviewed this year, including South Africa. But much more to do. G8 and EU leaders must reaffirm their commitment to increase aid, and set out a path showing how they will do this. On education, we are not yet on-track to reach Universal Primary Education; we need African governments to develop sustainable funding plans, and donors to meet financing needs by making long-term commitments. On HIV/Aids, we need fully to fund national plans to achieve universal access to Aids treatment and Global Fund replenishment. We need to tackle the increasing feminisation of the disease in Africa. Over the past two years, the number of women and girls infected with HIV has increased in every region of the world. In sub-Saharan Africa, 60 per cent of adults living with HIV are women; worse, 3 out of 4 young people living with HIV are women and girls. African governments should deliver their promises to consolidate democracy, build the capacity of government institutions to deliver essential services, redouble efforts to stamp out corruption, and encourage the private sector to grow. African governments should also hold other African governments to account. In Zimbabwe, decades of repression have forced up to one third of the country to flee. Life expectancy has dropped from 60 in 1990, to 37. And South Africa's economy loses 3 per cent of GDP thanks to Zimbabwe's economic melt down. I welcome the determination of the countries of Southern Africa to tackle Zimbabwe's problems through SADC, and President Mbeki's leadership bringing the two parties together. The world is waiting, wanting to re-engage with a reforming Zimbabwe government. We support SADC's efforts to develop a clear plan. But for the people of Zimbabwe, this is urgent: and change before the 2008 elections, essential. The international community must be prepared to help rebuild the shattered country. It will be important we look at what institutions and global arrangements we need to deliver the promises we made; Africa should be permanently represented at the UNSC; we need to further strengthen the AU and NEPAD. In particular, I believe the EU and AU should build a stronger partnership. As well as delivering on what we have committed, we also need to face up to new challenges. One of the most important is the private sector and trade. We need to challenge the global perception that Africa means aid. Countries like South Africa show a different side of Africa; or Ghana, setting a path to middle-income status within 10 years. As everywhere, trade and a thriving private sector are the essential components of prosperity and stable economies. We need to open up opportunities for business in Africa. In 2005, the Commission for Africa Report recommended that more needed to be done to harness the private sector's resources and skills to promote innovation and access to markets. At the Gleneagles summit, the G8 made a commitment to do this. So in June, the Africa Enterprise Challenge Fund (AECF) will be launched at the Cape Town Africa regional World Economic Forum, to provide matched funding through an open competitive process, to businesses for innovative commercially sustainable projects. The UK will be the first contributor to this fund, with $20 million over the first 3 years. The Investment Climate Facility, launched in June 2006 will bring the public and private sectors together to tackle the constraints on the business environment. The UK was the first to commit funds: $30 million over 3 years. The facility now stands at $120 million. By opening our markets to African goods, and by removing the trade-distorting subsidies that make it so hard for African countries to compete, we can do much more. The WTO talks were launched in shadow of 9/11. There was a new determination to make the world a fairer place. But almost 6 years on, our trade negotiators are still talking. I believe this round of talks must urgently be concluded. We must reach a breakthrough before the end of June. We are only a few per cent and few billion from a deal that would lift millions out of poverty. I will talk about this with President Mbeki tomorrow. The coming weeks are crucial. But the WTO deal won't be enough by itself. We need to do more to build Africa's capacity to trade - through roads, marketing and storage. It takes 116 days to move an export container from a factory in the Central African Republic to the nearest port and fulfil all the administrative requirements to load the cargo on a ship. The same task in Denmark takes just 5 days. At Gleneagles, G8 countries committed to providing £4 billion in aid for trade, and they must now keep that commitment. The UK is on track to increase aid for trade spending to $750 million by 2010. We must help African countries by allowing 100 per cent duty and quota free access to our markets. The EU and G8 must review our rules of origin to encourage developing countries to cooperate with each other on trade, by recognising the value added at each stage in a product's development, so that, for example, Tanzania can sell canned vegetables to Europe, even if the can comes from its non-LDC neighbour, Kenya, without paying tariffs. It is one of the world's greatest injustices that the vulnerable suffer most from new threats. From HIV to conflict, Africa has been hardest hit. The same is true of climate change. This is no surprise to the tens of millions of subsistence farmers across Africa. A good crop is always a gamble on the rains. In the late 1990s, the floods and droughts in Kenya cost some 16 per cent of GDP each year. Mozambique floods, Malawi droughts and the Horn of Africa crisis underline this. But it is not just about agriculture and food. It is also about disease. More than 110 million people in Africa live in regions prone to malaria epidemics. Slight changes in rainfall and temperature could increase this figure by up to 80 million by the end of this century. Reports show that the areas of Africa at greatest risk, where vulnerability overlaps with climate hazard, are the Sahel, the Great Lakes in the drylands in eastern Africa and southern Africa, and around Lake Chad. So it is imperative that the world acts. The UK revitalised this agenda in 2005 during our presidencies of the G8 and EU with our focus on climate change and Africa. The Stern report last November set out the economic arguments, proving it will be cheaper to act now than wait. Chancellor Merkel's decision to put this on the agenda of her G8 Summit next week gives us an opportunity to inject new momentum into the search for a global solution. There is a real chance the G8 +5 could agree the elements of a post-Kyoto framework, that includes the US, India and China. South Africa is an important player in these talks. We must seize this opportunity and then build towards the important talks in Bali. The coming year must be a turning point. The final challenge I wanted to mention is about the battle of values. And this is where our partnership must be strongest. It is the foundation for everything else. I have learnt, over the last 10 years: that if we don't act together on poverty, on climate, to stop conflict, we concede the space to others with another world view and values; and that unless we apply our values evenly we will never win the bigger battle for a democratic, more just and tolerant world. We are not yet doing this. The world doesn't fight as hard for a child's life in Africa as it does in Europe. The danger is: we lose the wider struggle, also familiar to Africa. 9/11 marked a shift in global awareness of Islamic extremism. 7/7 brought this tragically to the UK's shores. But Africa felt the impact earlier: the horrific bombings in Tanzania and Kenya; extremists benefiting from the ungoverned space in Somalia to hide. There are nearly 250 million Muslims in sub-Saharan Africa - a quarter of the world's Muslim population. The numbers have grown rapidly over the last decade. They should be part of our progressive coalition for change. We need to work together across faiths and races to win the wider battle for values. In conclusion, wealthy nations and Africa both face a choice: us, as to how far we help Africa to take the right path. Africa as to which path to take: one is chosen by countries like South Africa, Ghana, Tanzania, Mozambique, Botswana and many others, reinforcing economic growth with good governance and the stamping out of violence and corruption; the other, the path of Zimbabwe or Sudan where bad government and violent oppression send the country's economy spiralling down. Our challenge is to support the good. Africa's challenge is to eliminate the bad. Today, South Africa stands as a beacon, across Africa, of democracy, and the triumph of what is right. Later today, I will visit President Mandela, who so impressively embodied the struggle against injustice, set the direction of South Africa today, and had the courage to forgive. I remember the anti-apartheid struggle so well. In the 1980s my party, the Labour Party, struggled purposefully in Britain to put the case for sanctions. But I remember also how far we were from much conventional wisdom which told us: we didn't understand, South Africa would collapse if apartheid ended, we were meddling. We know now these arguments are misplaced, even ludicrous. But not then. There is a lesson here. Progress does not come from the cautious. It isn't born of the status quo. It tends to challenge conventional wisdom. It rarely is the product of refraining; nearly always a consequence of sustained action against the odds. It accepts the pain of transition. It never yields to the notion of "the way things are". Think of how little action in Africa really costs us, and by us I mean the wealthy nations. 0.7% of GDP is hardly a heavy burden to carry. Opening up trade actually helps us. Training and equipping African forces is not the toughest thing our armed forces have to do. The Gleneagles G8 agreement was a breakthrough, but it won't cost the earth to do it. What might cost it, is not doing it. Next week at the G8 Summit, leaders will show whether, having put Africa at the top of the global agenda, we have the perseverance and vision to see it through. I hope we have. AND AUDIO NEWS Tony Blair says Africa and the West face choices Blair issues Africa action call 31 May 07 | Politics Blair role in SA arms contract 31 May 07 | Politics Blair attacks Africa trip critics 30 May 07 | Politics What is Blair's African legacy? 30 May 07 | Africa African media on Blair's legacy 30 May 07 | World Blair hails positive Libya talks 29 May 07 | Politics Blair not 'indulging in vanity' 21 May 07 | Politics Blair issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/isle_of_man/6708753.stm | Europe | Isle of Man | Fans set for TT paddock walkabout GMT 15:55 set for TT paddock walkabout The walkabout takes place in the grandstand Motorcycle fans are once again getting the chance to get up close and personal with their TT heroes in 2007. Members of the public will be allowed into the paddock at the grandstand on Saturday for the annual walkabout, organisers say. Riders including John McGuinness, Guy Martin and Ian Lougher will be on hand for photos and autographs, the Department of Tourism said. The walkabout will last an hour ahead of the TT Superbike and Sidecar Races. Paul Phillips, the government's TT and Motorsport manager, said: "TT riders and the fans have always had a close relationship and it's appropriate that in the 100th year we are continuing the tradition. "The day proved hugely popular with families last year and we hope that as many people as possible come down and enjoy the morning," he added. ISLE OF MAN Information and features on the BBC's Isle of Man website McGuinness increases pace at TT 29 May 07 | Motorbikes Exhibition marks 100 years of TT 29 May 07 | Isle of Man TT races kick off on Isle of Man 26 May 07 | Isle of Man Isle of Man TT Races Isle of Man TT Marshals Association Pictures from the Isle of Man ISLE OF MAN STORIES Burst water main causes cut-off Fans set for TT paddock walkabout The Who rock Peel Bay Festival e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/americas/6708609.stm | Americas | US actor will run for president GMT 17:26 actor will run for president Former Tennessee Senator Fred Thompson is a successful actor Fred Thompson, a Hollywood actor and former senator, has said he intends to run for US president in 2008. The 64-year-old, who joins a crowded field of Republican contenders, told newspaper USA Today about his campaign plans, after months of speculation. He is already well known for his role as a district attorney in TV series Law & Order, and has been polling well. Mr Thompson is expected to launch a "testing the waters" committee soon, a first step toward officially declaring. The formal declaration of his candidacy could then come within weeks, with 4 July being rumoured as a possible date. The former two-term senator for Tennessee has already been hiring staff, making speeches and establishing a strong internet presence. Reports began circulating on Wednesday that he had decided to make official his informal but already attention-grabbing initiatives towards running for president. "I can't remember exactly the point I said, 'I'm going to do this'," Mr Thompson told USA Today in an interview published on Thursday. "But when I did, that thing that occurred to me: 'I'm going to tell people that I'm thinking about it and see what kind of reaction I get to it'." Mr Thompson has already been attracting attention with speeches He told the paper that his late start to campaigning carried "certain advantages", not least that his use of the internet "has allowed me to be in the hunt, so to speak, without spending a dime". Observers say he could pose a threat to all three of the main contenders for the Republican nomination, Senator John McCain, former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney. Some polls have put him at second or third place among potential Republican voters struggling to decide who to back in a field of almost a dozen candidates. He has strong conservative credentials on issues such as gun control and abortion and, while he voted in 2002 to authorise the Iraq invasion, he is not as closely associated with the war as some of his rivals. His charisma and ability to perform for the crowds are expected to stand him in good stead on the campaign trail. Inevitably, parallels have been drawn between Mr Thompson and another actor-turned-politician, Ronald Reagan. The actor has asked to leave Law & Order, where he has played the astute, fatherly New York District Attorney Arthur Branch for the past five seasons, in order to concentrate on politics. He is also known to viewers for roles in the films The Hunt for Red October, in which he played a US Navy admiral, Last Best Chance and In the Line of Fire. FOR THE 2008 WHITE HOUSE Actor Thompson to run in 2008 Clinton opens song vote Republican hopefuls back war Democrats at one on Iraq Obama fundraising rivals Clinton US states vie for influence by advancing their primaries to 'Super Duper Tuesday' Winning the web war? Republicans' first TV test Hillary impresses in TV debate Guide to the top candidates Why such big war chests? Iraq looms over race How the political system works Quick guide: Presidential elections urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk_politics/6705505.stm | Concern over 'lack' of EU debate GMT 16:11 over 'lack' of EU debate Margaret Beckett had declined to appear so close to the summit Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has been criticised for not giving evidence to an influential group of MPs about the government's Europe policy. The foreign affairs committee said her reluctance to attend a session ahead of an EU summit, was "a failure of accountability to Parliament". Europe Minister Geoff Hoon also came in for criticism from the committee. A spokeswoman for Mrs Beckett said she took accountability to Parliament very seriously and always kept it informed. She has said she would appear a few days before the summit which starts on 21 June, but committee chairman Mike Gapes, who said he had been asking for an appearance since February, objected to the timing. "By then senior officials in the Foreign Office and Number 10 will have been involved in months of discussions with their counterparts in other European countries," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "There are controversial issues here - in the past there has been a commitment to a referendum, if we are now moving away from a referendum and we are having parliamentary decisions on these processes, then Parliament itself has to be fully engaged in the discussion and the development of the policy." He wrote to Mrs Beckett on behalf of the committee expressing "deep concern". The summit will consider attempts by Germany to revive the EU constitution, vetoed by the French and Dutch in referendums two years ago. Geoff Hoon has always been very happy and remains happy to appear before the committee to discuss the EU constitutional treaty In the letter Mr Gapes said: "The committee regards the refusal of the [Foreign Office] to provide a minister to give oral evidence during this crucial phase of the discussions on the future of Europe as a failure of accountability to Parliament." He said Mr Hoon had suggested two dates to appear before the committee in May, which were not followed up. "It is the strong view of the committee that an evidence session in June is too late," Mr Gapes wrote. A spokeswoman for Mrs Beckett said she and her ministerial term took their responsibilities to Parliament and the committee "very seriously". "Our position was that any evidence session would be most useful once the German presidency had set out their timetable for discussions leading up to the European Council and once the government had drawn up a set of policy options in response," she said. The government has not only been secretive, they haven't even set out clear goals for Britain in the talks on a new Treaty "Ministers continue to keep Parliament informed both through written questions and through monthly foreign office oral questions." And a source close to Mr Hoon said he was "bending over backwards" to accommodate the committee, and had offered to appear during the weeks beginning 28 May and 4 June, as well as on either 13 June and 18 June. "Geoff Hoon has always been very happy and remains happy to appear before the committee to discuss the EU constitutional treaty." Shadow Europe minister, Mark Francois, for the Conservatives, said he agreed with the committee's criticism. "The government has not only been secretive, they haven't even set out clear goals for Britain in the talks on a new Treaty. "Either they don't want to tell the British people what they want to sign up to or they don't have a clue what they actually want." accused over EU jail law 28 Mar 07 | Politics Europe diary: Spheres of influence 25 May 07 | Europe EU constitution: Where member states stand 25 Mar 07 | Europe Q&A: EU constitution's future 25 Mar 07 | Europe Foreign Affairs Select Committee Foreign and Commonwealth Office issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6709071.stm Ireland | NI man denies Turkey fraud claims GMT 16:13 man denies Turkey fraud claims A County Londonderry man being investigated in Turkey over an alleged property fraud has denied he has been involved in any wrongdoing. Kevin O'Kane, from the Bellaghy area, has had his passport confiscated by Turkish police. They are investigating claims that dozens of investors have been swindled. Mr O'Kane's solicitor said his client "is himself a victim of the fraud and has lost well over a quarter of a million pounds." It is understood Mr O'Kane was taken to Bodrum for questioning before being released on bail. The alleged fraud involves the false marketing of luxury villas. The authorities are also seeking a Turkish national for questioning. of Foreign Affairs Kurdish Human Rights Project NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Worthington set to be NI manager Sinn Fein's Policing Board debut NI man denies Turkey fraud claims e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/6700997.stm | What GMT 16:09 editor, BBC News website Google informs me of the sites I have visited most in the last week The search engines that power our journey through the internet know a lot about us - from the operating system and browser we use, to the kinds of websites we typically visit. As Google comes under scrutiny over its privacy policies in Europe, our technology editor looks at the information that search engines and web services firms record about us. The websites I visit most frequently include the BBC News website, Wikipedia, Microsoft, Apple and Cnet, while Pirate Bay, the World Time Clock and RFID and wi-fi are among my most searched for terms in the last 30 days. I know this because Google tells me so. As a Google account holder, and because I asked it to, the computer giant records how I use the internet whenever I am logged into its service. The data is quite detailed: it shows that I do most of my search engine queries between 11am and noon, but also that I am still busy online through most evenings. It tells me the products I have searched for, the news items, the video clips, the images and even the maps I have looked at. If anyone were to look at this information, they would have a comprehensive idea of my lifestyle, my interests and potentially even my movements - Google records that I searched for the location of a hairdressers in Richmond last week. Yahoo and Microsoft's MSN probably know a lot about me too. I am frequently logged into their services, and while I don't use their search engines, both firms know some personal details because I had to provide them when I registered. And this is what worries some privacy experts. They want to ensure that this information remains private and is not abused in any way. The simplest method used by websites to track behaviour is a cookie. These small files are stored on your computer each time you use the net and note the details of the computer that accesses a web page. Each cookie contain an anonymous unique identifier related to the computer you are using. As individuals and society we need to learn new ways to deal with wanting to be identifiable, wanting to be anonymous and wanting to be pseudonymous Why do firms like Yahoo and Google collect this information? At the simplest level, the firms track our web usage so they can optimise our experience in the future. Cookies store preferences, such as language settings, and can also tell websites the proceeding website we were looking at and site we go to next. These files can be switched off in a browser but that does mean that many web services will fail to work properly or will not work at all. Yahoo, Google and Microsoft also use web beacons, a tiny electronic image on a web page, which helps them analyse a user's behaviour online. These firms make money online by targeting advertising to users when a search is performed or alongside their web products. For advertisers, the attraction of the online space is being able to talk directly to customers whom they know are interested in their products or product area. But who else gets to see or use this personal information? Is my web history, or information about which adverts I look at, being handed over to third parties? Peter Fleischer, Google's global privacy counsel, says: "No third parties are given access to a Google's user's web history. According to Google, May is a very popular month for my searches "We will never transfer to third parties, including advertisers, any personally identifiable information about our users - that includes IP addresses and account details." Yahoo and MSN's privacy policies also say they do not disclose personal information to third parties without user consent. Search engines are able to serve up targeted adverts to users not because they know who each user is by name, but because search engines and web services are engineered to interpret what information we are seeking online. Yahoo combines non-identifiable personal data from account holders, with the web history from using Yahoo websites and services to create a detailed, yet anonymous, profile of a user. That data is then used to serve targeted adverts. Google does not utilise a user's web surface history to target adverts unless the user has signed up to its personalised web search system. And it only stores personal information when it has asked a user's opinion. Mr Fleischer says: "It should always be an opt in if the service proposes to collect sensitive personal information, such as health information. "If it is doing something routine, then an opt out is fine, such as downloading cookies to a machine." Mr Fleischer explains: "If you are a user of personalised search - which is an opt-in service - we could take into account your web browsing history from the past to provide more relevant search results. "The advertisers would be bidding against those more relevant search results." So does it matter if that information about us is anonymised? Mr Fleischer believes that it is inevitable that more and more data will exist about us in cyberspace but does not think that will mean our right to privacy is compromised. "More and more of these services will offer choice about how to use them. "I am speculating here, but I would expect that people will be able to say how they want to use services, whether in an identifiable capacity or under a pseudonym. "There are all kinds of different levels of transparency you can choose to represent different parts of your lives. Over time people will become much more sophisticated about how they use all this online data about themselves." He adds: "We are in a transition generation right now. As individuals and society we need to learn new ways to deal with wanting to be identifiable, wanting to be anonymous and if we want to be pseudonymous. "Technology companies will build tools for people to do this. It will become a very natural part of our lives within five years." privacy policy 'is vague' 31 May 07 | Technology Google could face in-depth probe 29 May 07 | Business Finding myself through online identities 14 May 07 | Technology 09 May 07 | Technology to show YouTube content US arrests internet 'spam king' e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/ Front Page Download the best of the 10 O'Clock News GMT 17:49 UK US urges new climate goals US President George W Bush outlines a new plan to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, ahead of a G8 summit. US 'opposes' G8 proposals Climate change around the world Andrei Lugovoi, accused of killing ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko, says UK secret services were involved. Italy lifers of prisoners serving life sentences in Italy call on the president to reinstate the death penalty. Putin warns US over 'arms race' Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Thai security chiefs fear unrest Turkish MPs back presidency vote US growth weakest in four years Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' ALSO IN THE NEWS Soon you will be able to surf the net - even when offline Just wizard! US Football: Blatter secures Fifa job Tennis: Hewitt overcomes Gaudio Should record number of Everest conquerors be celebrated? opinion in Lebanon over Hariri tribunal decison VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS the cards UN Hariri move proves divisive Bush calls for climate action More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Spy death suspect 'blames UK' Bloody Sunday victims 'innocent' Blair S Africa speech in full AROUND THE WORLD NOW Blair issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions Cold forces Argentine energy cuts US actor to run for president State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild EU asks industry to fight obesity Russia denies foreign energy bias Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack MORE FROM BBC NEWS Increase in anti-terror targets EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Women warned on iron 'overdose' Whale meeting condemns Japan hunt Hariri court split Lebanon? Help us make the news, with your pictures, views and stories e-mail 'hit' by spammers actor will run for president urges new greenhouse gas goals Hezbollah are taking an interest in Italian nectarines Bahamas or border - oddities of the US immigration system Missing for 80 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/americas/6708995.stm | Americas | US urges new greenhouse gas goals GMT 16:51 urges new greenhouse gas goals Germany wants a 50% cut in emissions by 2050 US President George W Bush has urged countries to agree on long-term goals for greenhouse gas emissions. He said he would hold meetings bringing together the US and 14 other major emitters, including developing nations, to set targets by the end of 2008. Mr Bush was outlining US policy ahead of next week's G8 summit, in which the German hosts are expected to call for cuts in emissions. The US has been accused of resisting strong action to tackle climate change. It has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, which sets out targets on lowering emissions until 2012. But Mr Bush on Thursday insisted that his administration took climate change seriously. The way to meet the challenge of energy and global climate change is through technology "The United States will work with other nations to establish a new framework on greenhouse gas emissions for when the Kyoto protocol expires," he said. To achieve this goal, he added, the US would hold a series of meetings bringing together "nations that produced most greenhouse gas emissions, including nations with rapidly growing economies like India and China". The BBC's Adam Brookes, in Washington, says Mr Bush's proposals differ radically from plans put forward by European countries ahead of the G8 summit. German Chancellor Angela Merkel has called for a major deal, including slowing the rise in average temperatures to 2C this century, by way of a cut in global emissions by 50% below 1990 levels by 2050. The United States has rejected that approach. In his address in Washington, Mr Bush repeated that solutions to the problem of global warming would be found through the development of new technologies. "The United States is in the lead," he said. "The world is on the verge of great breakthroughs that will help us become better stewards of the environment." The US president also urged other nations to eliminate tariffs on clean energy technologies. The G8 summit will be held on 6-8 June in Heiligendamm in Germany. AND AUDIO NEWS What Bush's speech could mean for the climate Find out how the greenhouse effect works and more... Climate change 'can be tackled' Climate curbs: Who will buy? Billions face climate change risk Stark picture of warming world Humans blamed for warming Through the climate window Politicians sign new climate pact Nairobi climate talks end in deal UK emissions on the rise EU agrees on carbon dioxide cuts Climate action 'needs devolution' Power station harnesses Sun Climate change: In graphics Models 'key to climate forecasts' Earth - melting in the heat? FROM ACROSS THE BBC urges new greenhouse gas goals US growth weakest in four years Russia blames US in missile row e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6708703.stm | Salmond faces taxation pressure GMT 16:32 faces taxation pressure Conservatives criticised the SNP's council tax plans Council tax should be replaced with a local income tax within four years, First Minister Alex Salmond has said. Mr Salmond said Scotland must have a "new, fairer and better system" of funding local authorities. Scots Tory leader Annabel Goldie said the change would leave local government with an annual £1bn funding shortfall. Speaking during First Minister's Question Time, she said it was "unlikely" the proposal would be approved by parliament. The SNP's local income tax proposals have been opposed by Labour, the Liberal Democrats, Greens and Conservatives. I believe that we need a new fairer and better system, called the local income tax The Lib Dems want individual councils to be able to vary local income tax, as opposed to the SNP's fixed 3p levy across Scotland. Miss Goldie said local government finance was a "thistle which needs to be grasped", claiming SNP plans would "drive a coach and horses through local autonomy and local democracy". She said: "If in the unlikely event that the first minister gets that proposal through this parliament, can he tell me even approximately when this new system will hit Scotland?" Mr Salmond said his government's policy was based on people's ability to pay, which was a central feature for justification of any taxation system. "The difference between us, I suspect, is that she believes we can amend the current unjust, iniquitous system," said the first minister, who added that he had difficulty with Tory proposals to halve council tax bills for those aged 65 and over. "I believe that we need a new fairer and better system, called the local income tax." SALMOND FIRST MINISTER Salmond elected as first minister New cabinet team announced Victory speech in full In quotes: Reaction to Salmond In Pictures: First minister Blog: Blether with Brian Grasping the leadership thistle Tough talkers to oversee business New MSPs sworn in at Holyrood Rejected votes more than thought SNP power share talks 'positive' Lib Dems will not do Labour deal Vote may face challenges SNP begins coalition discussions Election group criticises ballots Grandfather 'SNP election hero' Election blog: Brian Taylor No concrete clues to the future Crunching the numbers for power Timeline: How it unfolded Electoral system in disrepute? Enter a full postcode to choose your seat SNP: Protest to power Labour hit by council seat losses Independents suffer heavy losses Witness appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' OAP billed for home's demolition e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6709125.stm | Shropshire | Police introduce new head cameras GMT 17:35 introduce new head cameras The equipment attaches to a headband worn under a helmet Police in Herefordshire are introducing state-of-the-art head camera technology to deter crime and disorder. The equipment, which is attached to a headband worn under a helmet, allows officers to film on patrol. Six head cams will be used, with each camera kit costing about £900. The equipment is also being trialled in Telford and Wrekin in Shropshire. There is a screen so officers can see who did what in public disorder situations, West Mercia police said. In many cases this will come as a wake up call Each camera kit can record up to 160 hours of images. Offenders can also be shown their behaviour. Footage can also be transferred to a computer or projector at a police station and every recorded frame cannot be tampered with, police said. Images can be used to help to provide evidence for the courts. Officers in Hereford are the first to be trained to use the new equipment in the county, but the cameras will be rolled out across Herefordshire in the coming months. Supt Adam Thomas, from Herefordshire Division, said: "The head cams will be used to film anti-social behaviour, alcohol-related disorder and other offences witnessed by officers as they go about their patrols in our town and city centres. "The cameras are clearly visible when they are worn and the instant playback facility means that officers can easily see again exactly who did what in public disorder situations, as well as showing the offenders themselves the poor level of their behaviour. "In many cases this will come as a wake up call and can help situations from deteriorating, especially if those involved know they are being filmed." CSO Merrick Liston, from Shropshire, said: "It takes a lot of worry off us - evidential situations where we need to write stuff down, depending on the situation at the time. "It records a lot of stuff that goes on, so it saves a lot of paperwork for us and again sometimes we might miss something, so it picks it up for us." Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester Licensing team to use head cams 10 Apr 07 | Sussex hunt four men after attack Balloonists head for Shropshire Free park and ride tackles cars e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/business/6708727.stm | Top bankers warn of risky loans GMT 15:58 bankers warn of risky loans Mr Rhodes says the surge in liquidity is the greatest he has seen Top bankers have warned that many lenders are letting their standards slip and making imprudent loans. "Lenders all too often, are setting aside key documentation and credit standards," said William Rhodes, senior vice chairman of Citigroup. Members of the Institute of Internat- ional Finance (IIF) warned that banks who loosen their standards could regret it when the upswing has run its course. The IIF is an organisation of 360 financial institutions. It says that there is great pressure to lend money when interest rates are low and so money is relatively cheap. "As liquidity has continued to be high and the deal flow has accelerated we have seen a lowering of lending and investing standards in some markets," said Josef Ackermann from Deutsche Bank. Mr Rhodes said that while there has nor been such a sustained period of global economic growth since before World War I, all upswings eventually run their course. rise 'will squeeze borrowers' 10 May 07 | Scotland How much money should you borrow? 27 Apr 07 | Business Barclays plays down lending risk 15 Mar 07 | Business Risks grow for first-time buyers 20 Nov 06 | Business Abbey offer: Groundbreaking or gimmick? 01 Nov 06 | Business 01 Nov 06 | Business Institute of International Finance economy weakest in four years EMI strikes a deal with YouTube Mortgage approvals hit year low e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/in_pictures/6708353.stm Pictures | In Pictures - African street Children GMT 16:03 Pictures - African street Children Unicef estimates that more than 200 million children are living on the streets across the world Marsali allows some of the boys into her home where they are given the chance to act like any other teenagers. They were delighted with her gift of Tartan Army shirts This woman gave birth to triplets on the street. Two of them have since died. The third is being looked after by Dwelling Places while the mother is still on the streets The children have a graduation ceremony after completing a year at interim school before moving into mainstream education A large number of the street children are high on drugs. The charity often rescues them with the help of some of former street children Many of the children in Karamoja lose family members to drought or cattle rustling warriors and are at high risk of ending up on the streets Marsali carries out a lot of immunisations. This abandoned baby, Jovia, has since been adopted The charity finds that many of the children have spent their whole lives on the streets Much of Marsali's work is day to day health care. Kasim, who was born on the streets, broke his arm after falling out of a tree while playing Many of the children end up on the streets as a result of rural poverty The charity has discovered many of the children are gifted in music, drama and dance. Some have joined a choir where they often sing about life on the streets life for African street children 31 May 07 | Highlands and Islands TOP IN PICTURES STORIES Day in pictures: 31 May e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/north_east/6709243.stm | North East/N Isles | Teenager cleared over man's death GMT 16:39 cleared over man's death Andrew Moor was married to Pauline and had two children A wife collapsed in tears as a teenager was cleared of killing her husband after a row over football in Aberdeen. The allegation that Craig Hobin, 18, killed 33-year-old father-of-two Andrew Moor with a single punch were found not proven. Pauline Moor had to be lifted to her feet and carried out of the High Court in Aberdeen by family and friends after the verdict. Mr Hobin had been charged with culpable homicide after the death last March. The jury returned the majority verdict following a four-day trial after Mr Moor died at the British Legion in Bridge of Don. We want people to learn from this and that arguing over football is a pointless activity The court heard how meat inspector Mr Moor had struck the ground after a row over football with a group of revellers outside an 18th birthday party. Trainee oil firm engineer Mr Hobin then confessed to police the following day when he heard Mr Moor was extremely ill. He claimed he was trying to defend his father. Following the verdict, Mr Moor's family claimed justice had not been done. In a statement they said their lives had been turned into "a living nightmare". The family said: "It has been 14 months since Andy was tragically taken from our lives and the family has had to endure a living nightmare since then. "It has been an emotional rollercoaster, where the family has been unable to begin the process of grieving and has been left suspended in a void wondering how and why Andy was tragically taken from us. "We have been trying to cope with the realisation that the man who 'touched the hearts of everyone he met' is no longer here with us." While disappointed by the outcome, they said they welcomed the fact that Craig Hobin recognised that his punch had ultimately resulted in a death. They added: "We want people to learn from this and that arguing over football is a pointless activity." Mr Hobin declined to comment as he left court. NORTH EAST/N ISLES STORIES Teenager cleared over man's death Death driver 'was visiting grave' Police uniform stripper in court e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk_politics/6708977.stm | Ellam to be Downing St spokesman GMT 15:42 to be Downing St spokesman Tories appoint press chief Treasury official Michael Ellam is to be head of communications in Downing Street when Gordon Brown takes over as prime minister on 27 June. Mr Ellam has worked for Mr Brown since he became chancellor in 1997, and for his predecessor Ken Clarke before that. During a decade at the Treasury Mr Ellam, 38, has held numerous posts, including head of communications and strategy for three years from 2000. He will handle daily briefings for the press as the PM's offical spokesman. He will replace Tom Kelly who has been Tony Blair's official spokesman. In 2004, Mr Ellam was appointed as director of policy and planning at the Treasury, with responsibility for short to medium-term coordination of policy. News of his appointment comes on the same day as the Conservative party announced that former News of the World editor Andy Coulson is to become its director of communications. issues Africa action call Coulson to be Tories' press chief Increase in anti-terror targets e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/jersey/6708525.stm | Europe | Jersey | Cheap home owners let off payment GMT 16:34 home owners let off payment People who bought a property from Jersey States below the market rate will now not be asked for extra money to make up for the shortfall. The Housing Department has backed away from its original plan to ask residents for money after it found out the properties were undervalued. Residents had agreed to buy the properties in Le Squez from the States three years ago at a fixed rate. They will now have to pay a financial penalty if they sell. If they sell within the first year, 25% of the profits will need to be paid back to the department. The amount will then decrease for every year they live there. Residents will have to sign a contract which means they cannot make a big profit by selling the properties straight away. Assistant minister deputy Jackie Hilton says that will prevent people from profiteering from States property. travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Jersey Islanders quizzed on homes sale 09 Apr 07 | Jersey Shared ownership homes proposed 27 Nov 06 | Jersey Average Jersey house is £335,000 10 Aug 04 | Jersey captain after ferry collision Ex-con is turned away from island Debate over dirty money control e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6707877.stm | Edinburgh and East | Tesco union in strike stand-off GMT 15:57 union in strike stand-off The T&G union has confirmed they are to hold a second 24-hour strike A second strike has been called in the row over changes to working conditions for drivers based at Tesco's Livingston distribution depot. The Transport and General Workers' Union (T&G) say 150 drivers are to join the 24-hour strike next Tuesday. Tesco have strongly denied claims that drivers based in Livingston had been threatened with job losses if they did not sign a new contract. A Tesco spokesman has accused the union of "following their own agenda". Almost 150 Tesco delivery drivers went on strike for two days last week in a row over new contracts and plans to transfer the depot to premises 500m away. Tesco is used to getting its own way but the local community is incensed by the way they are being treated The Transport and General Workers' Union (T&G) claims drivers had been told they would lose their jobs if they did not sign a new contract, which they claimed includes worse working terms and conditions. The union says the new contracts will mean losses to the drivers of between £3,000 and £6,000, and derecognition of their union as the depot moves location. The T&G claim that drivers voted by 126 to 6 to strike in a ballot ,where more than nine out of 10 members took part. Tony Trench, regional industrial organiser for the T&G section of Unite, said the strike action would take place amidst growing local community support. He said: "Tesco is used to getting its own way but the local community is incensed by the way they are being treated. "Much of the support for the drivers is from their families and I'm delighted that a women's action committee has been formed." The union said drivers had been angered by a "provocative" letter received from Tesco instructing them not to come to work for seven days as a "cooling off period". Ron Webb, national secretary for transport in the T&G section of Unite, said the letter was outside his experience as a trade union official and questioned its legal status. We are investing £75m in the area and creating 1,000 jobs A spokesman for Tesco said that the claims of drivers losing £3,000 in pay were "complete, total nonsense", and challenged the union to find any driver who would lose this amount. He said that the union members had been sent a letter instigating a seven day cooling-off period, during which the drivers would receive full pay and some overtime payments. The Tesco spokesman said that the dispute was of no advantage to the drivers and that the T&G had created the dispute for its own agenda. He claimed that the previous week's strike had very little union support, with two-out-of-three T&G union stewards at Livingston not supporting the strike. He said that the Livingston depot was not being used as a testing ground for these terms and conditions: "These people have been offered guaranteed, protected terms and conditions. "The same conditions have already been implemented in four distribution sites across the UK, with complete union consultation and no industrial action." He added: "We are investing £75m in the area and creating 1,000 jobs." T&G Unite shop stewards will meet in London this Saturday to discuss the next stages of the national campaign, including talks on a national strike ballot. dispute enters second day 25 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Tesco lorry drivers go on strike 24 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Tesco drivers to stage walk-out 14 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Supermarket drivers set to strike 01 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Council critical of Tesco meeting 20 Mar 06 | Scotland Tesco to create jobs in £75m plan 14 Mar 06 | Scotland Union meets Tesco over job cuts 14 Mar 06 | Scotland Transport and General Workers Union EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Witness appeal after hit-and-run OAP billed for home's demolition Injured quad bike boy abandoned e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/middle_east/6708821.stm | Middle East | Call for Mid-East women's rights GMT 15:49 for Mid-East women's rights Condoleezza Rice closely linked women's rights to democracy US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has called for more political rights for women in the Middle East. She said women needed such rights to be able to choose how to balance tradition with empowerment in their societies. Ms Rice was speaking at a conference in Vienna which has been examining the contribution women can make to peace efforts in the Middle East. Attending the meeting are a number of prominent women from the region. It's absolutely the case that unless women are fully participants of their societies, these societies cannot really be fully democratic These include the Israeli foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, Palestinian MP Hanan Ashrawi, the wife of the Iraqi president, Hira Talabani, and Sheikha Haya Rashed al-Khalifa, the outgoing Bahraini president of the UN General Assembly. "It's absolutely the case that unless women are fully participants of their societies, these societies cannot really be fully democratic, and that is something we're absolutely devoted to," Ms Rice said. The participants at the conference are meeting behind closed doors for a discussion entitled Women Leaders - Networking for Peace and Security in the Middle East. Hosting the meeting, Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik said those attending had no illusions about the problems in the volatile region and would not shy away from talking frankly about its "open wounds". "We have no illusions about the obstacles still facing us, nor about the urgency for action," she said. "We will not let ourselves be discouraged." in Iran over dress codes 27 Apr 07 | Middle East Veil protest dogs Kuwait minister 02 Apr 07 | Middle East Yemeni women sign up to fight terror 02 Apr 07 | Middle East Iran police stop women's protest 08 Mar 07 | Middle East Index ranks Middle East freedom 18 Nov 05 | Middle East Aids threat grows for Arab women 23 Feb 05 | Middle East TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES Hezbollah condemns Hariri court Many killed in Iraq suicide bomb Quartet urges BBC man's release e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/surrey/6706851.stm | Surrey | Thatcher strikes Falklands coin GMT 15:46 strikes Falklands coin The one-crown coin struck by Lady Thatcher bears a Britannia design Baroness Margaret Thatcher has struck a one-crown gold coin as part of a collection to mark 25 years since the liberation of the Falkland Islands. The former prime minister was at Pobjoy Mint, in Kingswood, Surrey, for the introduction of a commemorative set of coins which will become legal tender. It includes 50-pence pieces with a map of the Falkland Islands and a "yomper" - a soldier marching with a rucksack. Troops were sent there by Lady Thatcher when Argentina invaded in 1982. She dismissed advice from defence officials who feared that the islands, which are 8,000 miles from Britain, could not be retaken. The Argentinians surrendered after 74 days, but more than 900 lives were lost during that time. Some of the coins will become legal tender in the Falklands The South American country has continually claimed sovereignty over the British overseas territory since 1833. Speaking at Pobjoy Mint, Lady Thatcher, 81, said: "As prime minister I learnt that when government puts money into circulation, all you get is inflation. "But on this very special occasion, perhaps I can make an exception to this rule." The commemorative coins were commissioned by the Falkland Islands' government. All the schoolchildren on the islands will be given one of the 50-pence pieces. travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Argentina renews Falklands claim Thatcher remembers war dead UK 'regret' over Falklands dead Falklands war was right - Blair Falklands enemies meet at last From wool to fish - surviving in the South Atlantic Learning on a remote farm Images from capital Stanley Was invasion day marked? The Falkland Islands way Oil billions beckon Falklands The 1982 Falklands invasion, recapture and island life today 'The Falklands are Argentine' How BBC man scooped invasion Images of the conflict 'I counted them all out' Falklands War - 25 years on Thatcher strikes Falklands coin Taxi wait girl sexually assaulted Police prepare for Derby meeting e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/glasgow_and_west/6703737.stm | Glasgow and West | Navy to uncover Clyde's secrets GMT 16:46 to uncover Clyde's secrets The scan showed HMS Dasher lying on the sea bed The Royal Navy's most advanced seabed survey ship has revealed the secrets of the depths of the Firth of Clyde. Hydrographic survey vessel HMS Echo has been visiting the waters around Glasgow for the first time. The ship used sonar to create a three-dimensional image of the wreck of the World War II aircraft carrier HMS Dasher, located south of the Cumbraes. Using advanced navigation and communication systems, HMS Echo has scanned the river bed up to Govan. Echo's multibeam sonar means she can create detailed images of the sea bed, enabling modern charts to be produced with the very latest up-to-date information for mariners. HMS Echo is fitted with the latest cutting edge sonar equipment The 3,500-tonne ship is berthing at the King George V Dock on the River Clyde for crew rotation and some recreation before continuing a busy survey programme off the west coast of Scotland. Lieutenant Commander Bruce Badrock, the ship's executive officer, said: "Although it will be a very busy time with a third of the crew changing over, we're hoping to make the most of our time here in a city with a reputation as one of the best runs ashore in the UK." back home after year away 18 May 07 | Devon Navy ship returns after 530 days 04 Jul 05 | Devon H M Naval Base Clyde GLASGOW AND WEST STORIES Teen firefighters scheme launched BNP Paribas announces jobs plans Salmond vow on outsourcing deal e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/south_asia/6709095.stm | South Asia | Indian families search for 'PoWs' GMT 16:42 families search for 'PoWs' BBC South Asia correspondent, Delhi Families have been campaigning for many years A group of families from India are travelling to Pakistan on Friday to search jails for soldiers who vanished during the 1971 India-Pakistan war. They believe more than 50 missing men are still alive and being held there. The Pakistani side denies it is holding any Indian prisoners of war, but it has agreed to open its jails as part of an ongoing peace process. For more than 35 years, one woman, Damayanti Vijay Tambay, has waited for her husband. A fighter pilot, his aircraft never returned from a mission during the 1971 war. Nirmal Kaur's husband vanished in fighting in Kashmir. In all, 54 soldiers are still missing from that conflict. Armed with old photographs Damayanti, Nirmal and others will try to recognise husbands they last saw as young men. They are clinging to the hope that the soldiers may have given false names when captured or that they have simply forgotten their identities after years of incarceration but are still waiting for someone to find them. the India-Pakistan peace process back on track? History of a troubled road Where are Pakistan militants? Timeline: Steps to peace Who are the militants? Possible solutions to the deadlock between India and Pakistan - in maps How secure is peace process? SOUTH ASIA STORIES Taleban 'downed Nato helicopter' Nepal parties agree November poll Thirteen die in Pakistan attack e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6708911.stm | Questions over class size policy GMT 16:30 over class size policy The SNP made several election pledges to boost education First Minister Alex Salmond has urged the Liberal Democrats to work with him to cut school class sizes. The plea came as Scots Lib Dem leader Nicol Stephen said the government had failed to put forward detailed proposals on achieving the goal. The SNP pledged to cut class sizes to 18 for the first three years of primary school during the election. But Mr Stephen questioned whether this would be a "long term" objective, as with plans to upgrade the A9 road. Speaking during First Minister's Question Time, Mr Salmond said a class size announcement would come within weeks. Mr Stephen demanded to know the government's target date for delivering on that goal, how many extra teachers would be recruited and how many new classrooms will be needed. "The Liberal Democrats are committed to reducing class sizes in Scotland with fully costed, detailed proposals to recruit 1,000 extra teachers and build 250 new schools," he said. Mr Salmond urged the Lib Dems to work with him to help cut sizes in primaries one to three. He also set out plans to increase free nursery education for three and four-year-olds by 50% and bring in a £10m fund to help youngsters with learning difficulties. Mr Salmond said to Mr Stephen: "I do hope on the range of these vital initiatives for the Scottish education system that we can really work together." SALMOND FIRST MINISTER Salmond elected as first minister New cabinet team announced Victory speech in full In quotes: Reaction to Salmond In Pictures: First minister Blog: Blether with Brian Grasping the leadership thistle Tough talkers to oversee business New MSPs sworn in at Holyrood Rejected votes more than thought SNP power share talks 'positive' Lib Dems will not do Labour deal Vote may face challenges SNP begins coalition discussions Election group criticises ballots Grandfather 'SNP election hero' Election blog: Brian Taylor No concrete clues to the future Crunching the numbers for power Timeline: How it unfolded Electoral system in disrepute? Enter a full postcode to choose your seat SNP: Protest to power Labour hit by council seat losses Independents suffer heavy losses Witness appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' OAP billed for home's demolition e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/derbyshire/6708831.stm | Derbyshire | Student designs translator device GMT 16:08 designs translator device The device is worn in a similar way to a wrist watch A university student has come up with a new gadget that he hopes may help soldiers and civilians in Iraq. "Ahky" is worn like a wristwatch and translates vital phrases. Iraqi Amin Ismail, 21, has created it as part of his product design course at Derby University and is now looking for a company to pick up on his idea. He said he hoped that, by translating statements into Arabic, it would improve communication between forces personnel and Iraqi civilians. He said: "The device will pick up phrases from military personnel and it will translate instantly into Arabic language in real time which will improve the communication between Iraqi people and military personnel. "It will ease the communication and it will make the Iraqi people understand the British military personnel in their mother tongue." Dougie Muirhead, of the 4th Battalion Parachute Regiment said the device would help in the initial stages of a military operation where an interpreter would not be immediately available. He added: "For a junior commander, when he is on the ground, they quite regularly operate without an interpreter, so therefore if you can communicate initially, (it will) alleviate some problems hopefully until an interpreter comes." "Ahky" is the Arabic translation for "speak". The device works on voice-recognition technology and could help in high risk situations using phrases like "don't shoot", "stay back" and "help will be here soon". AND AUDIO NEWS Wrist worn language translator Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Derby demolished over safety fear Seized Elvis goods go to auction Student designs translator device e-mail 'hit' by spammers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/north_east/6708807.stm | North East/N Isles | Motorcyclist killed in accident GMT 16:09 killed in accident The biker was taken to hospital by ambulance but died A motorcyclist has been killed after a collision with a car on the outskirts of Aberdeen. The accident happened on the B9077 South Deeside Road in the Blairs area at about 1300 BST. The male biker, believed to be in his 30s, was taken to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary. He died from his injuries. A Grampian Police spokesman said: "Sadly we are dealing with yet another motorcycle tragedy on north east roads, the third in about two weeks." The spokesman said: "I would appeal to all drivers, not matter what kind of vehicle they are driving, to exercise great care on our roads." NORTH EAST/N ISLES STORIES Teenager cleared over man's death Death driver 'was visiting grave' Police uniform stripper in court strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/sussex/6708959.stm | Sussex | Anger as squatters wreck church GMT 16:00 as squatters wreck church Ebenezer Baptist Church is empty pending redevelopment A Baptist congregation is angry after squatters wrecked an empty church building and covered the walls with anti-Christian graffiti. Police who raided Ebenezer Baptist Chapel in Richmond Parade, Brighton, last week found 18 people inside and evidence of drinking and drug taking. The building, which is due to be redeveloped, was boarded up but the squatters returned within days. "I am angry but in a sense I pity them," said pastor Tony Bickley. "When you see what is inside, I just wonder what is going on in the minds of people to do they are living in - it is almost tribal," he said. The church was flooded and its organ vandalised. The squatters had left empty beer cans and drugs paraphernalia throughout the premises and bedding in the baptism pit. "When we came in last Thursday morning there were 18 people here - primarily street drinkers," said Insp Laurence Taylor of Sussex Police. "We came in because of the impact on the community in the area. "We had a lot of reports of drug dealing coming from the premises and anti-social behaviour." A planning application is before Brighton and Hove City Council to build a new church, community hall and flats on the site. travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Brighton and Hove City Council robber found guilty Anger as squatters wreck church Red faces at police station theft strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/6708777.stm | Europe | Solidarity miners' killers jailed GMT 16:07 miners' killers jailed The president regretted families had to wait so long for justice A Polish court has convicted 15 former militia officers of shooting dead nine miners in 1981. The deaths occurred during a communist clampdown on the opposition Solidarity trade union in 1981. Workers at two mines in Silesia had been protesting against the imposition of martial law. Poland's president, a former Solidarity activist, welcomed the verdict but regretted that the victims' families had to wait so long for justice. As the guilty verdicts were read out, some people in the packed courtroom clapped and started to sing the national anthem. Declaring the shooting a "communist crime", the judges sentenced the commander of the militia unit, Romuald Cieslak, to 11 years in prison for giving the order to open fire. Fourteen other officers were given sentences of between two-and-a-half and three years. In December 1981, Poland's communist leaders imposed martial law in an attempt to stem the growing popularity of the Solidarity trade union. Hundreds of miners at the Wujek and Manifest Lipcowy collieries barricaded themselves inside. When the army and militia units moved in to break up the demonstrations, nine people were killed and 25 injured. It was the third time the officers had stood trial in a 14-year-long legal process. The men were acquitted on two previous occasions but the verdicts were overturned on appeal. rocks Polish Church 08 Jan 07 | Europe Poles return to Russian language 05 Jan 07 | Europe Poland marks communist crackdown 13 Dec 06 | Europe 04 May 07 | Country profiles US in missile row Turkish MPs force reform showdown strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/6707465.stm | The 'Cardinal of Controversy' GMT 16:17 'Cardinal of Controversy' The cardinal's strident views often disguise his jovial nature Cardinal Keith O'Brien knelt in silent prayer deep inside the Vatican and paid a final goodbye to the Pope who had appointed him just 18 months earlier. The Scottish cardinal was later to compare the death of Pope John Paul II to "losing a father or grandfather". He had become one of the pontiff's most trusted lieutenants after a rapid rise through the Vatican ranks, and was tipped as a potential successor. But the brief period of reflection beside the Pope's body as it lay in state in April 2004 was a rare moment of calm in the often turbulent career of the primate, who has previously been dubbed in the press the "Cardinal of Controversy". The outspoken leader of Scotland's 750,000 Roman Catholics had once been seen as a relative liberal in the church, certainly in comparison to his predecessor Cardinal Thomas Winning. Prior to being elevated to a cardinal by Pope John Paul II on 21 October 2003, when he became only the third Scot to reach the rank since the Reformation, he had expressed his openness to a debate on issues like priestly celibacy, women priests and contraception within the church. But a series of media interviews in recent years have been interpreted as the cardinal affirming his commitment to a more traditional Roman Catholic morality. His willingness to speak out regardless of what people will think is also more in keeping with the Scottish temperament in general - we just like an argument Unlike many other faith leaders in Scotland, Cardinal O'Brien has not been afraid to wade into political as well as moral debate, causing shockwaves last year when he said he would be "happy" if Scotland voted for independence. The remarks, six months before the Scottish parliament elections, were widely criticised by opponents concerned that they marked a blurring of the boundaries between religion and politics. He has voiced fierce opposition to replacing the Trident nuclear missile system, called on Muslims to apologise for the 9/11 and 7/7 terrorist attacks, and once accused the devolved Scottish government of "child abuse" after they launched a new public sex education initiative. The cardinal was later criticised for apparently linking new laws on gay marriage and adoption to paedophilia when he asked politicians: "What if a man likes little girls? Can he adopt a little girl and then just have a little girl at home? "I would certainly say we are working towards the destruction of any sort of moral standards. We don't want this in our country." The remarks caused gay rights campaigner Peter Tatchell to retort: "The cardinal is a very sad, sick man. It is not what we expect from someone who claims to be motivated by the gospel of Jesus Christ of love and compassion." His views on abortion too have brought criticism. When new figures revealed a record number of pregnancies were being terminated in Scotland, he likened abortion to murder and said politicians who backed the "social evil" should not expect to remain full members of the church. Less controversially, Cardinal O'Brien, the Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh, has campaigned tirelessly against the "secret shame" of sectarianism in Scotland. He cites laws forbidding a Roman Catholic monarch as evidence that society is "blatantly anti-Catholic", and has pointed out that Catholics in Scotland are more likely to be the victims of sectarian violence than their Protestant neighbours. The cardinal said Pope John Paul II's death was like losing a father Cardinal O'Brien recently attended a football match between bitter Old Firm rivals Rangers and Celtic alongside other faith leaders in a bid to defuse religious tensions, but has stated he does not believe football alone is blight. The cardinal can claim to have personal experience of sectarianism. Born in Ballymena, Northern Ireland, on St Patrick's Day 1938, his family was forced to move to Scotland when he was a young boy. His father had found it impossible to get work as a Catholic despite having served with distinction with the Royal Navy during World War II. A slight Irish accent can be detected in his speech to this day, and he remains fiercely proud of being "an Irish-born Scot". Respected religious commentator John Haldane, a professor of philosophy at St Andrews University, said the cardinal's hardline image was often at odds with his good-natured personality. Prof Haldane said: "He is actually a very sociable, jovial man who genuinely likes meeting people. He says everything with a smile, and should not be mistaken for some dour harbinger of doom." But Prof Haldane said the cardinal had been more inclined to toe the church's party line after his sudden, and possibly unexpected, elevation. He added: "He suddenly realised the focus that would be placed on absolutely everything he said, and the responsibility that came with his new position. He was now speaking for the church, not just for himself. "He is often perceived as being the Christian leader in Scotland rather than just the Roman Catholic leader because other institutions like the Church of Scotland don't have any kind of figurehead leader people can turn to." The professor said the history of the Catholic Church in Scotland, which has large Irish immigrant roots, made it more "feisty" than its English counterpart. "Compared to England, where the Catholic church has entered into the establishment, it still has something of the immigrant's sense of being the underdog about it in Scotland," he said. "His willingness to speak out regardless of what people will think is also more in keeping with the Scottish temperament in general - we just like an argument." sounds abortion warning 31 May 07 | Scotland Cardinal makes environment plea 08 Apr 07 | Scotland Old Firm visit for church leaders 11 Mar 07 | Glasgow and West Scottish Catholic Media Office appeal after hit-and-run Death driver 'was visiting grave' OAP billed for home's demolition strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/somerset/6709217.stm | Somerset | Foal taken from field in theft GMT 16:36 taken from field in theft A foal has been stolen from a field in Westonzoyland, police said. The skewbald filly was taken from a field off Westonzoyland Road sometime between last Monday evening and Tuesday morning, police said. People are being urged to look out for the two-week-old foal, which is brown and white with white-coloured legs. An Avon and Somerset Police spokesman said: "Anyone who has been offered the foal for sale or knows its whereabouts should call police." going out, views and more from the BBC website for Somerset Avon and Somerset Police verdict in punch death case Beach dog walking ban is reviewed Pole trekker survives ice plunge strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/country_profiles/1243059.stm | Asia-Pacific | Country profiles | Timeline: Thailand GMT 16:09 chronology of key events: - Beginning of the Chakri dynasty under King Rama I, which rules to this present day. The country is known as Siam. New capital of Bangkok founded. Bangkok, known as "Krung Thep" - City of Angels Original settlement established by Chinese traders Became capital of Kingdom of Siam in 1782 2004: Subway cheers Bangkok commuters - Reign of King Chulalongkorn. Employment of Western advisers to modernise Siam's administration and commerce. Railway network developed. - Siam becomes ally of Great Britain in World War I. - Bloodless coup against absolute monarch King Prajadhipok. Constitutional monarchy introduced with parliamentary government. - Siam changes its name to Thailand ("Land of the Free"). - Japanese forces land. After negotiations Thailand allows Japanese to advance towards British-controlled Malay Peninsula, Singapore and Burma. - Thailand declares war on Britain and US, but Thai ambassador in Washington refuses to deliver declaration to US government. - End of World War II. Thailand compelled to return territory it had seized from Laos, Cambodia and Malaya. Exiled King Ananda returns. - King Ananda assassinated. - Military coup by the wartime, pro-Japanese leader Phibun Songkhram. The military retain power until 1973. - Thailand permits US to use bases there during the Vietnam War. Thai troops fight in South Vietnam. - Student riots in Bangkok bring about the fall of the military government. Free elections are held but the resulting governments lack stability. Classical dance is inspired by ancient myths, religious tales - Military takes over again. - New constitution promulgated. - General Prem Tinsulanonda assumes power. - Prem gives up his military position and heads a civilian government. He is re-elected in 1986. - General Chatichai Choonhaven replaces Prem after elections. - Military coup, the 17th since 1932. A civilian, Anand Panyarachun, is installed as prime minister. Golden figure guards Temple of Emerald Buddha, Bangkok 2000: Boom in Buddhist websites BBC Religion & Ethics: Buddhism - New elections in March replace Anand with General Suchinda Kraprayoon. There are demonstrations against him, forcing him to resign. Anand is re-instated temporarily. Elections in September see Chuan Leekpai, leader of the Democratic Party, chosen as prime minister. - Government collapses. Banharn Silpa-archa, of the Thai Nation party, elected prime minister. - Banharn's government resigns, accused of corruption. Chavalit Yongchaiyudh of the New Aspiration party wins elections. - Asian financial crisis: The baht falls sharply against the dollar, leading to bankruptcies and unemployment. The IMF steps in. Chuan Leekpai becomes prime minister. - Tens of thousands of migrant workers are sent back to their countries of origin. Chuan involves the opposition in his government in order to push through economic reforms. Thousands were killed in controversial anti-drug drive 2003: Thai PM hails drug war success 2003: Thailand's bloody drugs war - Economy begins to pick up again. Thai media highlight high cost of drug treatments for Aids and HIV. Thailand begins to pressurise drugs companies to find ways to make the drugs cheaper. January - Elections won by Thaksin Shinawatra of new Thai Love Thai party. Allegations of vote-buying force partial re-run of poll. Thaksin forms coalition government. March - A plane Thaksin is due to board explodes. Police say a bomb is to blame. June - Prime Minister Thaksin visits Burma to discuss drugs and border tensions. He says relations are now back on track. Within days the Mae Sai-Tachilek border crossing is opened again after clashes between Thai and Burmese troops in February. August - Thaksin is cleared of assets concealment. A conviction by the Thai Constitutional Court could have meant a five-year ban from politics. May - Burma closes border with Thailand after Thai army fires shells into Burma during battle between Burmese army and ethnic Shan rebels. Border reopens in October. January - Serious diplomatic upset with Cambodia over comments attributed to a Thai actress that Cambodia's Angkor Wat temple complex was stolen from Thailand. Angry crowds attack the Thai embassy in the Cambodian capital. More than 500 Thai nationals are evacuated. Violence plagues the mainly-Muslim south 2004: Thailand's restive south 2004: In pictures - Daily life in southern Thailand February - Controversial crackdown on drugs starts; more than 2,000 suspects are killed by late April. The government blames many killings on criminal gangs; rights groups say extra-judicial killings were encouraged by the authorities. January-March - More than 100 are killed in a wave of attacks in the largely-Muslim south. The government blames Islamic militants. Martial law is imposed. April - More than 100 suspected Islamic insurgents are killed after launching coordinated dawn attacks on police bases in the south. October - 85 Muslim protesters die, many from suffocation, while in army custody following violence at a rally in the south. An enquiry concludes that they were not killed deliberately. King Bhumibol Adulyadej - the world's longest-reigning monarch 2006: Thailand marks king's anniversary Life in pictures: Thailand's king December - Thousands of people are killed when massive waves, caused by a powerful undersea earthquake off the Indonesian coast, devastate communities on the south-west coast, including the resort of Phuket. March - Thaksin Shinawatra begins a second term as PM after his party wins February's elections by a landslide. July - As violent unrest continues in the south, Prime Minister Thaksin is given new powers to counter suspected Muslim militants in the region. In November the death toll in violence since January 2004 tops 1,000. October - Thailand redoubles efforts to fight bird flu as fresh outbreaks of the disease are reported. April-May - Snap election, called by the PM amid mass rallies against him, is boycotted by the opposition and is subsequently annulled, leaving a political vacuum. The PM takes a seven-week break from politics. A military coup saw the ousting of Prime Minister Thaksin Q&A: Thailand's coup impact August - Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra accuses several army officers of plotting to kill him after police find a car containing bomb-making materials near his house. September - Six simultaneous motorcycle bombs kill three people and wound more than 60 on a busy street in the southern town of Hat Yai. 19 September - Military leaders stage a bloodless coup while Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra is at the UN General Assembly. Retired General Surayud Chulanont is appointed as interim prime minister in October. HERO FOR A TIME Policeman-turned-tycoon Thaksin Shinawatra tranformed Thai politics but was ousted in a military coup 31 December - Series of bomb blasts in Bangkok kills three people. No-one claims responsibility. January - Martial law is lifted in more than half of the country. April - First draft of a new constitution is approved by a committee appointed by the military administration. May - Ousted prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra's Thai Rak Thai party is banned. Thousands of soldiers are put on alert. AND AUDIO NEWS 2005: Emergency rule introduced in restive south 2006: King Bhumibol Adulyadej's anniversary 2006: PM Thaksin ousted in military coup Overview, political leaders, the media A GUIDE TO ASIA-PACIFIC Compiled by BBC Monitoring Thailand prime minister sworn in Thaksin military allies sidelined Generals seek image change What next for Thaksin? Wait and see for tourist sector Thailand's new PM is a well-respected army veteran Q&A: Thailand's coup impact Political worries cloud economy Profile: Thai coup leader Thai farmer: 'Thaksin helped us' Thaksin's home town reflects Surreal scenes in Bangkok Views on Thai coup TOP COUNTRY PROFILES STORIES Country profile: East Timor strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/asia-pacific/6708533.stm | Asia-Pacific | Australia battles rise in alcohol abuse GMT 16:40 battles rise in alcohol abuse Experts say alcohol is damaging the health of Australians Alcohol increasingly has Australia in its poisonous grip. One in eight Australians drink at dangerous levels. The effects on long-term health are likely to be catastrophic. Australia has always had a boozy reputation but excessive drinking is on the rise. Doctors are warning of a surge in chronic diseases such as cirrhosis of the liver and cancers as well as brain disorders in the next 20 years. "Unfortunately Australia has a massive alcohol drinking problem," said Associate Professor Gordian Fulde from Sydney's St Vincent's Hospital. "It's our culture, our society accepts it and in some ways society encourages it." "Alcohol leaves all the other drugs - heroin, ecstasy, ice (methamphetamine) - absolutely for dead," he told the BBC. "They're minute compared to problems caused by alcohol drinking." On average about 10 Australians die every day as a result of alcohol consumption. It is a health calamity that affects the lives of so many. The Australian National Council on Drugs has found that 230,000 children have a parent or carer who drinks excessively. It's our culture, our society accepts it and in some ways society encourages it "I think what's happened here (is) it's a reflection of our prosperity, in the sense that there's more money that is available for drinking alcohol," said the council's chairman Doctor John Herron, who pointed out that the cost of beer, wine and spirits has also gone down. Research has shown that those families with alcohol problems are also commonly affected by mental illness as well as physical and sexual abuse. Australia's indigenous population is suffering more than any other group. Black Australians are twice as likely to die from the effects of drinking as their non-Aboriginal counterparts. A recent report showed that alcohol misuse claims the life of an Aborigine every 38 hours. Suicide is the greatest cause of death among intoxicated men, while many women die of liver cirrhosis or strokes. Some have managed to conquer their demons, but those dark days of the past are never far from the surface. "I'm compulsive, I'm out of control when I'm drinking," said Les Beckett, a middle-aged Aboriginal man from Queensland. "I'm a nasty piece of work when I'm drinking and I'm a sorry piece of work and dangerous." Les admitted to beating his late wife and stealing from his children during his alcoholic years. Les has remained sober for the past two decades but staying on the straight and narrow is a constant battle. There is a feeling that Aborigines turn to booze and other drugs because they feel left behind by mainstream society more than two centuries after European colonisation. Alcohol abuse is rife among the Aboriginal community "To understand alcohol abuse, we need to look at the ways in which our people have been treated over the last 200 years," explained indigenous Pastor Ray Minniecon. "Most of this stuff is just a broken spirit of the Aboriginal people... and alcohol abuse becomes a substitute for the spirit that we'd like to have." Beer and wine have been outlawed in some 'dry' indigenous communities but for many the cravings remain irresistible. Despite the gloom - and there is plenty of that - there is hope that things will one day improve. "There's a strong capacity in our people to make sure we survive," said Ray Minniecon. "We don't know how we're going to eradicate it (the abuse of alcohol) but we can heal ourselves through our own culture which makes our spirit strong." Australians - both black and white - are increasingly hitting the bottle. Binge drinking has emerged as the real menace. Those who have to pick up the pieces say the situation is out of control and getting worse. "The thing that is very scary is that females - especially young females - have now adopted and may be even improving on male drinking habits," said Gordian Fulde. "Alcohol is a poison. It rots your brain. It is just absolute social suicide," he said grimly. 'time-bomb' of Aborigines 12 Feb 07 | Asia-Pacific Booze ban extended for Aborigines 17 Apr 04 | Asia-Pacific 16 Feb 04 | Asia-Pacific 09 May 07 | Country profiles Australian National Council on Drugs security chiefs fear unrest State of emergency ends in Fiji Freed Chinese panda dies in wild strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/africa/6709089.stm | Africa | Ugandan anger at phone tap move GMT 16:33 anger at phone tap move Security agencies have been accused of illegal phone tapping The opposition in Uganda has condemned a government move to legalise phone tapping by the security agencies. The bill, which is to be tabled before parliament, seeks to allow the lawful interception and monitoring of communication in Uganda. The Uganda People's Congress (UPC) party claims the move is intended to suffocate the opposition. Relations between the government and the opposition have been acrimonious following disputed polls in 2006. ?It is a bad thing to entrench telephone tapping into our laws. It will jeopardise people's freedom,? UPC youth leader Benson Obua-Ogwal said during a press briefing. Security Minister Amama Mbabazi presented the draft bill to a ruling party meeting where the government was canvassing MPs to ensure the bill sails through parliament. President Yoweri Museveni, who was at the meeting, said that the bill was intended to monitor communication between suspected terrorists. It would also protect the country from criminals such as Lord's Resistance Army rebel leader Joseph Kony, he said. The bill, which has cabinet approval, also seeks to legalise the interception and monitoring of postal letters and money transfers. Correspondents say security agencies in the country have been accused of illegally tapping the phones of prominent opposition leaders in the past. Mr Mbabazi said the bill would reinforce the provisions of the anti-terrorism act. IN THE NORTH Out of the shadows In pictures: Seeking safety Seeking peace with the past Kony breaks his silence In pictures: Night commuters See how one Ugandan war-torn village is coping with its losses UGANDA - DEMOCRACY ON TRIAL Ugandans relieved at calm poll Personal rift dominates poll Views: Juba peace talks Will Uganda peace talks succeed? issues Africa action call Nigeria militants set conditions Zambia's Chiluba 'to stand trial' strikes a deal with YouTube
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hereford/worcs/6709091.stm | Hereford/Worcs | Duo fined for dating website joke GMT 16:29 fined for dating website joke Two teenagers have been fined £80 by police for posting a friend's details on a dating website as a joke. The pair, from Bromsgrove in Worcestershire, pretended their friend, who is 17, was 19 to post his details. The youth started receiving calls, some late at night, prompting his family to contact West Mercia Police. A spokesman said the boys had been drinking and thought it would be a funny thing to do but owned up immediately when questioned. They were fined under the 2003 Communications Act but could have ended up in court if they did not accept the fine. The joke backfired when the victim began receiving phone calls, some of them in the early hours of the morning, from people seeking to arrange meetings Pc Wayne Griffin said: "They had been drinking and thought it would be a laugh to place their friend's name and phone number on a dating website without his knowledge. "The joke backfired when the victim began receiving phone calls, some of them in the early hours of the morning, from people seeking to arrange meetings. "To their credit, the boys responsible owned up immediately and in the cold light of day regretted their actions. "But if they had not agreed to accept the fixed penalty notice they might well have found themselves appearing in court and ending up with a criminal record. "This case demonstrates that we do take allegations of bullying, including cyber bullying, seriously, and will take action." Hereford and Worcester Sport, travel and more for Hereford and Worcester injury unit to have doctor Duo fined for dating website joke Police introduce new head cameras strikes a deal with YouTube challenge facing ex-News of the World editor with the Tories
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/isle_of_man/6709047.stm | Europe | Isle of Man | Burst water main causes cut-off GMT 16:12 water main causes cut-off A burst main in the Isle of Man has caused disruption to water supplies in the Ballasalla area of the island. The cut-off was caused by a burst in the Ronaldsway area, on Thursday morning, the Isle of Man Water Authority said. Engineers isolated the main and reinstated supplies, but some customers may have discoloured supplies. The authority is advising customers to run the cold water tap in the kitchen sink until it runs clear. ISLE OF MAN Information and features on the BBC's Isle of Man website Isle of Man Water Authority ISLE OF MAN STORIES Burst water main causes cut-off Fans set for TT paddock walkabout The Who rock Peel Bay Festival strikes a deal with YouTube challenge facing ex-News of the World editor with the Tories
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6718421.stm BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Trio held in doorman murder probe Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:20 GMT 19:20 UK held in doorman murder probe Brian McGlynn worked as a doorman in pubs and nightclubs Three men have been arrested by police investigating the murder of a Londonderry pub doorman at the weekend. Brian McGlynn, 28, was in bed in his home in the Fountain Hill area of the Waterside when two masked men shot him dead at about 0330 BST on Sunday. Mr McGlynn, originally from Strabane, worked as a doorman at the Red Rooms nightclub and another pub in the city. The men being held are in their late teens or early 20s and were arrested in the Fountain Estate area on Monday. His girlfriend was in the bedroom but was not injured Mr McGlynn had been employed by a security firm in Derry until two weeks ago. He had worked as a doorman at several pubs and clubs in the city and had a number of assault convictions. His 24-year-old girlfriend was in the room at the time of the shooting but was not injured. His father, Errol, said he had seen him at his birthday in April and that everything seemed "hunky-dory" with his son. "The police are investigating as well as they can but they think it was with him doing door work at the clubs," he said. "They suspect he might have had a run in with someone." AND AUDIO NEWS Condemnation of the murder Police Service of Northern Ireland NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Civil service 'fortnight on sick' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/bristol/6720515.stm BBC NEWS | England | Bristol | Man is left shaken after assault Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:16 GMT 18:16 UK is left shaken after assault A 60-year-old man was kicked and knocked to the ground after he was asked for a cigarette. The victim was walking along Malago Vale in the Bedminster area of Bristol when he was approached by a man. When he told him he had no cigarettes, a second man appeared. The first man then started to search him. As the victim backed away the second man kicked him in the back causing him to fall and graze his head. Nothing was taken but the victim was left shaken. Both attackers were aged about 19. The first is 5' 8" tall and of stocky build. The second man is 5'11", and of average build. Anyone who witnessed the attack which took place between 1930 and 2000 BST, on 2 June, is asked to contact police. guide, travel news and more from the BBC Bristol website Avon and Somerset Constabulary atrium home for Banksy mural Theatre answers closure critics Man is left shaken after assault MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/scotland/edinburgh_and_east/6720511.stm BBC NEWS | Scotland | Edinburgh and East | Tesco 24-hour strike called off Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:01 GMT 20:01 UK 24-hour strike called off Tesco management have agreed to open talks with the union A second 24-hour walkout which was planned for the Tesco distribution depot at Livingston on Tuesday has been suspended. The strike was called off after management offered to open talks with the T&G section of the Unite union. The dispute is over changes to job contracts, pay - particularly overtime and premium rates - and union representation. The 24-hour stoppage had been due to start at midday. Almost 150 Tesco delivery drivers have already been on strike over new contracts and plans to transfer the depot to premises 500m away. The union said the new contracts would mean losses to the drivers of between £3,000 and £6,000, and derecognition of their union as the depot moves location. union in strike stand-off 31 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Tesco dispute enters second day 25 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Tesco lorry drivers go on strike 24 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Tesco drivers to stage walk-out 14 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Supermarket drivers set to strike 01 May 07 | Edinburgh and East Council critical of Tesco meeting 20 Mar 06 | Scotland Transport and General Workers Union EDINBURGH AND EAST STORIES Home search in Vicky murder probe Man charged over girl death crash Tesco 24-hour strike called off MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6720093.stm BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Death crash driver 'fell asleep' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:36 GMT 18:36 UK crash driver 'fell asleep' In court, Andrew Drage denied having been too tired to drive A man working 12-hour shifts fell asleep at the wheel of his car, killing a motorcyclist, a court has been told. Andrew Drage, 45, of Skewen near Neath, was on his way to join his family at a caravan in Pembrokeshire when he crashed, Swansea Crown Court heard. He denies causing the death of Raymond Freeman, 58, of Meidrim, near Carmarthen, by dangerous driving. Giving evidence, he admitted falling asleep, but denied being too tired to drive. The case continues. He told police five minutes before the crash at Kilgetty his body had "jumped" as if he had been nodding off. But he said he thought he had dealt with the situation by turning on the fan in the BMW and blowing cold air onto his face. Patrick Griffiths, prosecuting, told the court that Mr Drage, who calibrates computer controlled tools, had rented a caravan at Saundersfoot for the entire summer season and spent weekends there with his wife and two children. I was only six minutes from the caravan. Only six minutes. On Monday, 24 July, 2006, he had worked a 12-hour day, followed by 13 hours on the Tuesday and 14 hours on the Wednesday. On Thursday, July 27, he began work at 0600 BST so he could leave early for Pembrokeshire. Mr Griffiths said on the A477, close to Kilgetty, Mr Drage told police he recalled overtaking a people carrier. After that he could remember a lorry flashing past, an airbag inflating and being showered in glass. Mr Drage "waited for an impact" and collided with a barrier. Unknown to him, he had already hit Mr Freeman. He said he walked back down the road and saw, for the first time, a motorcycle on its side. Giving evidence on his own behalf, Mr Drage said: "I was only six minutes from the caravan. Only six minutes. "When I saw the lorry I knew I was on the wrong side of the road. I did not know I had hit the motorcyclist. I didn't even see him." Mr Drage denied being too tired to drive, but Mr Griffiths said he had "selfishly" overworked during the week just so that he could get away on the Thursday by lunchtime. views, travel and more from across the region SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Death crash driver 'fell asleep' Five in hospital after accident Royal harpist prepares for debut MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6720453.stm BBC NEWS | UK | Shonia on China stem cell journey Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:14 GMT 19:14 UK on China stem cell journey The hospital hopes to give Shonia better mobility Late on Saturday night, there are crowds at the arrival hall at Beijing airport. The Tahiliani family walks past customs. Priti pushes her daughter Shonia in a small wheelchair. Shonia's father Kishor has the luggage. They look around for a sign with their name on it. They have flown 5,000 miles from Bournemouth to be here. "We're not nervous," says Kishor. "We're just trying something totally new. We actually hope something better will happen." "Just keeping our fingers crossed," adds Priti. "We don't know what the future will hold, but we are just giving our best try as parents." Their daughter Shonia has cerebral palsy. She is eight years old - but she cannot walk or talk. Her parents have raised £18,000 to bring her to China for stem cell treatment. It is something they cannot get back in the UK. A hospital minibus collects the family from the airport and takes them into Beijing. Shonia spends the journey quietly sitting on her mother's lap. On Monday afternoon, the Tahilianis settle into their room on the ground floor of the Tiantan Puhua Neurological Hospital. Kishor leans over his daughter and gives her lunch. In one corner, the family has set up a webcam. On the windowsill, they burn some incense. For the next three months this will be their home. Soon, doctors will begin to remove stem cells from Shonia's bone marrow. And then they will inject the cells into her spine. The hospital hopes to give Shonia better mobility - but it doesn't promise a total cure. Her parents believe they have done the right thing by coming here. "We are not hoping for drastic results like she will be totally normal," says Priti. "I know what the reality is. No one has promised us anything. She's my only daughter and I wouldn't send her for a trial like a guinea pig... I wouldn't do that." Further along the corridor, in the hospital's exercise room, a physiotherapist throws a ball towards a patient. Right now the hospital is giving stem cell treatment to seven foreigners. One man has come from Hungary to try to recover from a stroke. One woman has come from London to get over a brain injury. She says her doctor back home doesn't know she is here. But this hospital says that these patients - including Shonia - have every right to stem cell treatment. "We give them a little hope," says Sherwood Young, the hospital's vice president. "False hope?" I ask. "No. We provide good hope." "How do you know?" "Publications in medical journals?" "We haven't collected enough data and documentation yet." This lack of publication concerns doctors in the UK. Many we have spoken to say they are worried that China is not following international procedure by skipping on proper peer review. "As far as I know these treatments offered through this clinic in China have not been subject to those procedures," says Professor Colin Blakemore, the chief executive of the Medical Research Council. "Nothing would be accepted for treatment in the NHS - or indeed any other developed country in the world - without proper evidence they do work and are not dangerous. And I don't know evidence for these kind of treatments in China." Doctors in the UK suggest that there will be huge advances in stem cell therapies in Britain in the next 10 to 12 years. But the Tahilianis say they cannot wait that long. In the hospital lobby, another family stops to say hello to Shonia. A little boy goes up to her wheelchair and shows her his toy dinosaurs. But Shonia can't grab the toys, and she can't even say hello. Her parents hope that, one day, this will change. donated to disabled girl 21 May 07 | Dorset Revolutionary treatment for girl 14 May 07 | Dorset China stem cell hope for Shonia 01 Jun 07 | Dorset BBC Health - Cerebral Palsy Tiantan Puhua Neurosurgical Hospital in moderate Muslims appeal Body sparks murder inquiry Empty school places at 758,000 MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/6719741.stm BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Bosnia suspect attacks UN arrest Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:21 GMT 19:21 UK suspect attacks UN arrest Gen Tolimir is a suspect in the 1995 Srebrenica massacre A former Bosnian Serb intelligence chief arrested last week has accused UN prosecutors in The Hague of breaking their own rules in arresting him. In his first court hearing, Gen Zdravko Tolimir said he had been sent against his will to the Bosnian Serb republic, even though he is a citizen of Serbia. UN war crimes tribunal chief prosecutor Carla Del Ponte is visiting Serbia to assess its co-operation with the court. The EU has pledged to resume talks soon on closer ties with Serbia. Tolimir, 58, did not enter a plea to charges of genocide, extermination, persecution and inhumane acts. He told the court he had suffered three strokes and lost around 30kg, and said that he was unlawfully extradited to the Bosnian Serb republic (Republika Srpska). Carla Del Ponte is dealing with a new Serbian government "I was arrested in the territory of Serbia, whose citizen I am, and I was transferred to the territory of [Republika Srpska] ... without the presence of a lawyer," Gen Tolimir said. He was reportedly arrested following a tip-off from Serbian police after spending years on the run. He was a top aide to Gen Ratko Mladic, the most-wanted former Bosnian Serb commander, who is still on the run. His arrest reduced to five the number of indicted war crimes suspects still at large. He is accused of involvement in the Srebrenica massacre of up to 8,000 Muslim men and boys in eastern Bosnia in 1995. Ms Del Ponte's visit was requested by the new Serbian government, which wants her to assess its co-operation with the court. She has repeatedly urged Belgrade to capture Gen Mladic. The European Union suspended talks with Serbia a year ago because of Belgrade's failure to co-operate with the court. The resumption date will depend on Ms Del Ponte's assessment. EU Enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn has said he expects the talks to resume later this month. arrest fuels speculation that Mladic may be next Genocide ruling frustrates Bosnia Hunt for Karadzic and Mladic Will Mladic face justice? Shattered lives in Srebrenica Karadzic and Mladic: The charges Hague tribunal at a glance What is a war crime? Seven Turks killed in rebel raid Hague trial for Liberian ex-leader MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/europe/jersey/6720465.stm BBC NEWS | World | Europe | Jersey | High rainfall above May average Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:43 GMT 18:43 UK rainfall above May average Jersey experienced one of the highest rainfalls on record for the month of May this year. Statistics show levels were more than double the average rainfall for the month of May. There was 113.9mm of rain, compared with the average of 52mm, making it the fifth wettest May since records began in 1894. The island's highest ever rainfall was recorded in Jersey in 1928, when a level of 131.5mm was recorded. travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Jersey Island' s hottest April on record 01 May 07 | Jersey 21, in court on sex offences Turbine teaching tool for school High rainfall above May average MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hampshire/6720317.stm BBC NEWS | England | Hampshire | Dotcom student to make millions Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:45 GMT 18:45 UK student to make millions Kieran O'Neill developed the video streaming website in his bedroom A teenager who developed a pioneering website in his bedroom has sold his business to a US computer giant for more than a million US dollars. Kieran O'Neill, 19, developed his video streaming website HolyLemon.com in 2003 two years before YouTube was launched. The Bath University student has recently returned from the US after agreeing a deal worth $1.25m (£630,000) with the firm Handheld Entertainment. Mr O'Neill, of Winchester, Hants, set up his website while taking his GCSEs. The website started off as a way of showing Flash animations I made to my friends and just grew from there The business administration student said: "With exams, I haven't really had time to celebrate yet. "The website started off as a way of showing Flash animations I made to my friends and just grew from there. "I designed the early sites in my bedroom at home and the trick was learning how to effectively stream user-generated video clips through the browser. "It is what you see everywhere now, but then it was a really novel idea - particularly for humour websites." As the site became more popular through word of mouth, Mr O'Neill began streaming user-generated funny video clips submitted to the site. HolyLemon.com went on to attract more than 50,000 users per day, becoming Google's first-ranked website for the search term "funny videos". Over the last year, Mr O'Neill has refused several offers for the business with Brad Greenspan - one of the early investors in MySpace - believed to be among them. He now holds shares in the parent company and can now invest in two new ventures he is currently working on. travel news and more from the BBC's Hampshire website Apple TV to show YouTube content 31 May 07 | Business Your home movies of the 1960s 31 May 07 | Magazine Making plans for the web's future 23 May 07 | Technology fall girl reported sex attack Dotcom student to make millions Man charged with woman's murder MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6720863.stm BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Double decker loses roof in crash Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:11 GMT 20:11 UK decker loses roof in crash No passengers were aboard the vehicle, believed to be a school bus A double decker bus had its roof torn off as it attempted to pass under a railway bridge in Bedfordshire. The vehicle is believed to be a school bus but no children were on board and no-one was injured when it hit the Cow Bridge in Elstow Road, Kempston. A fire crew attended from Kempston Fire Station, which is about 200 yards away. "The crew heard the bang and went to investigate, finding a bus with no roof," said a spokeswoman for Beds and Luton Fire and Rescue crew. "Very luckily no-one needed rescuing", she added. The road was closed both ways for emergency services to clear up the debris before it was re-opened. No-one from the company was available to comment on the accident. Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more Bedfordshire and Luton Fire and Rescue found in hunt for woman Man arrested over fatal M40 crash Double decker loses roof in crash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/world/middle_east/6720445.stm BBC NEWS | World | Middle East | Gaza TV women protest at threats Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:38 GMT 18:38 UK TV women protest at threats Female Palestinian TV staff are the latest to feel pressure on media Palestinian television journalists have protested for a second day in Gaza against threats by a shadowy Islamist group to decapitate female presenters. The group calling itself the Swords of Truth accused women TV journalists of acting "without shame or morals". In recent months, dozens of internet and video stores have been firebombed by self-styled religious guardians. The protesters, including prominent reporters and filmmakers called for protection from extremist groups. Lawlessness in has increased the last two years in a power vacuum following the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Gaza and a Western aid boycott of the Hamas-led Palestinian government. At the same time hard-line Islam has been on the rise. "We will cut throats, and from vein to vein, if needed to protect the spirit and morals of this nation," the group said in a statement emailed to news agencies on Friday. "Shame on you," news anchor Sally Abed - one of 15 female anchors for Palestinian TV - said on Sunday, addressing the Islamist group. "The people working in this institution are your people - if it's not your sister, it's your mother." A separate organisation calling itself the Army of Islam has claimed responsibility for kidnapping BBC reporter Alan Johnston in March. More vigils have been held to highlight his continuing captivity, exactly 12 weeks after his abduction. At a gathering at BBC TV Centre in London, BBC deputy Director General Mark Byford demanded his immediate release. AND AUDIO NEWS The parents of Alan Johnston react to the video Palestinians 'united' on Johnston Video released of BBC's Johnston Parents' hope over video Quartet urges BBC man's release Guantanamo plea for Johnston Hamas speaks of Johnston hope Alan Johnston: Your messages Use your blog to support Alan Johnston - here's how Sign the online petition To our own correspondent, Alan Full transcript of Johnston video Kidnap compounds Gaza's crisis Alan Johnston on the front line Living with risk in Gaza TOP MIDDLE EAST STORIES New vow to spread Lebanon battle Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/in_pictures/6720921.stm BBC NEWS | In Pictures | In Pictures: Crewe chemical blaze Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:19 GMT 20:19 UK Pictures: Crewe chemical blaze Firefighters have been tackling a major blaze at a chemical works in Crewe, Cheshire. Picture by Mark Casey Police erected a 400m exclusion zone around the fire and put up road blocks. People were urged to stay indoors. Picture by Steve Brandreth The fire began shortly after noon and the smoke could be seen for miles around the town. Picture by Daniel Evans Aztec Chemicals said the fire probably began in an aerosol can shredding machine. Picture by Victoria Maddock blaze at chemical factory 04 Jun 07 | England TOP IN PICTURES STORIES Day in pictures: 4 June MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/ BBC NEWS | News Front Page Get news headlines on your handheld device Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:47 GMT 21:47 UK Nato condemns Russia's threat to aim weapons at Europe over the planned US missile defence shield. New era of discord Q&A: US missile defence Gorbachev criticises US 'empire' Seven Turks killed in rebel raid Kurdish rebels kill at least seven Turkish soldiers in a raid on a military outpost in eastern Turkey, officials say. A US military judge drops charges against a Canadian terror suspect at Guantanamo Bay, citing new laws. Ex-Liberia leader boycotts trial Missing US soldiers' IDs on video Greek shot in double-park row New controls on media in Pakistan New vow to spread Lebanon fight Launch date for iPhone revealed ALSO IN THE NEWS Climbers recreate doomed Everest ascent in 1920s gear London unveils the logo for the 2012 Olympic Games Tennis: Nadal sees off Hewitt Football: Ranieri new Juve coach Mixed views in Sierra Leone and Liberia to the Charles Taylor trial Preview the Royal Academy's Summer Exhibition 2007 Living in a toilet The Moroccan family blocked from going home - to a public loo VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Paris Hilton begins her jail sentence Putin makes nuclear threat Taylor refuses to attend trial Washington vigil for Johnston More Video / Audio News WORLD SERVICE RADIO PROGRAMMES MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Hilton starts jail sentence Amsterdam's nude photo shoot Putin makes nuclear threat Steve Jobs launches iPhone French Open: Nadal brushes off Hewitt Putin launches missile row AROUND THE WORLD NOW S Africa police clash with nurses Sierra Leone air crash kills 19 'US plot' pair in Trinidad court Colombian rebels spurn jail deal China unveils climate change plan Chinese gangs 'behind fake drugs' Brussels cleaning 'fraud' probed Bosnia suspect attacks UN arrest Egyptian Brethren appear in court Amnesty seeks Mid-East watchdog Tribal group drops India protest Army U-turn on Kashmir holy sites MORE FROM BBC NEWS Blair in moderate Muslims appeal Weak growth in US factory orders Herceptin could cut mastectomies Nations meet to protect wildlife Europe online '24 hours a month' Paris Hilton starts jail sentence War of words or new Cold War? Help us make the news, with your pictures, views and stories MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West family barred from toilet Greek man shot in double-park row Guantanamo Canadian case dropped Your alternative Olympic logos of the most striking images from around the world Our digital nomad Bill Thompson glimpses the portable future Missing for 84 days Sign the petition calling for Alan Johnston's release ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC Back to top ^^ Privacy and Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/hampshire/6719549.stm BBC NEWS | England | Hampshire | M27 fall girl reported sex attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:29 GMT 19:29 UK fall girl reported sex attack Sara Clark was interviewed by police after reporting a sexual assault A Hampshire teenager, who fell to her death from a motorway bridge, had reported to police she was the victim of a sexual assault days earlier. The family of Sara Clark, 18, believe a delay in a police follow-up call over the allegation led her to jump from a bridge over the M27 on Saturday. After reporting an attack, Miss Clark was interviewed by police who said "her allegations were taken seriously". The matter is now with the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPPC). Miss Clark's mother Amanda Clark, 44, said she spent several hours with her daughter on Wednesday after police called to say she had reported a sexual assault. We can confirm an allegation of sexual assault was reported on 30 May Det Insp Kath Barnes "They [the police] said they were going to call her on Thursday and Friday," said Mrs Clark. "She was so depressed as she thought no-one cared or they did not believe her. "Come Friday evening and still no-one [had called], she was really, really upset about it. She could not cope. "If they [the police] were there for her, if a phone call to say they were investigating she would still be here today." Amanda Clark said her daughter was worried 'no-one believed her' Sara's body was discovered by a lorry driver in the early hours of Saturday on the westbound carriageway of the M27 near Southampton. Miss Clark's sister Sabrina, 24, said: "She was looking for support to make sure people believed her - she did not feel she was believed. "She said she was waiting for a visit from police." Miss Clark was interviewed at Totton police station when she reported the attack. She was then taken to a sexual assault referral centre for medical tests and more interviews. She had further blood tests at hospital in Southampton before two detectives interviewed her alone at home on Wednesday afternoon. Miss Clark's body was found near junction two of the M27 on Saturday A statement from Hampshire Constabulary read: "We can confirm that she made an allegation of sexual assault to us in the early hours of Wednesday May 30 and patrol officers were deployed to the scene immediately. "They arrived within a few minutes of her call, and the location was cordoned off and subjected to forensic examination and search. "Specialist investigators were called out and a full investigation commenced, including taking her to Hampshire's Sexual Assault Referral Centre where she was spoken with, and supported by a sexual offences interview trained officer." Police said inquiries had continued since then into the incident. A post-mortem examination by a Home Office pathologist revealed Sara died from head injuries. The Totton Road Deaths Investigation Unit is appealing to drivers who travelled on the westbound section of the M27 between 0330 and 0430 BST on Saturday to contact them. travel news and more from the BBC's Hampshire website Body of woman found on motorway 03 Jun 07 | Hampshire fall girl reported sex attack Dotcom student to make millions Man charged with woman's murder MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6720735.stm BBC NEWS | England | West Midlands | Air tanks removed after sabotage Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:19 GMT 20:19 UK tanks removed after sabotage West Midlands Police is still investigating A hospital has replaced all of its portable oxygen cylinders after several were tampered with. Three tanks at Sandwell Hospital in West Bromwich, were deliberately blocked up and subsequent checks revealed two more had been sabotaged. West Midlands Police is investigating the incidents and forensic checks have been carried out on the items that caused the blockages. A hospital spokesman said that 100 portable cylinders had been replaced. leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country More oxygen cylinders sabotaged 29 May 07 | West Midlands Police probe hospital tampering 21 May 07 | West Midlands Oxygen supplies 'tampered with' 20 May 07 | West Midlands Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals Health and Safety Executive WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Man sentenced for second killing Air tanks removed after sabotage Council protects NEC pension fund MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/6720115.stm BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | NI house price boom hits brakes Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:21 GMT 18:21 UK house price boom hits brakes BBC Northern Ireland business correspondent "Screeching to a halt." That is a description of the east Belfast housing market from two estate agents. And it's a view that's shared by agents and financial advisers in other areas of Northern Ireland. The house price rise in Northern Ireland seems to be slowing "For the first time in about 18 months we're actually having to work hard to sell houses," said one agent. "In the recent past, terraced houses, in particular, simply sold themselves. "In fact, if a prospective buyer didn't move immediately to make an offer, we didn't really bother with them because there were so many other buyers chasing the property. That's all changed now." So it seems that at last, the heat may have gone out of the local housing market. But not according to the latest official survey which continues to show that as far as prices are concerned, the only way is up. The University of Ulster's Quarterly House Price Index reports that housing values rose by 46% over the past year, and by 11% in the first quarter of 2007. The average house price in Northern Ireland is now £215,590 - higher than in Scotland, Wales and the entire north of England. South Belfast still has the most expensive houses - the average there is over £256,500, but the north coast/Portrush and Limavady region is just a few hundred pounds cheaper. East Antrim saw the most spectacular increase - up 56% on the year. In the Craigavon/Armagh area there was what the authors of the report call a "staggering" increase in semi-detached houses - up 67% to an average price of £211,000. So why are agents seeing a different picture? Simply because surveys, by their nature, are always a little out of date by the time the data's collated, analysed and published. Economist Alan Bridle, head of research for the Bank of Ireland in the north, warns that the long-awaited and much-predicted slow-down of house price inflation is already under way. "In the past 12 months, the market's been rampant and now we're seeing signs, as predicted, that things are returning to normal activity levels. "From a banking point of view, property transactions in the past few weeks have been fairly flat and investor demand has slipped back. "The interest rises are partly responsible, and also the fact that houses are simply too expensive for investors now." This slow-down will be largely influenced by a further predicted rise in interest rates. This week, or in a month's time, the Bank of England is expected to add an extra 0.25% to the 5.5% rate. That would mean five rate hikes since last August, piling pressure on homeowners, particularly those who have stretched themselves to the limit. Amongst the worst-affected will be those who are coming to the end of exceptionally low interest fixed-rate mortgage deals. It's estimated that one in five UK homeowners switched to fixed-rate deals in August 2005, with many securing rates as low as 4.25%. close observation of the housing market would suggest that at long last, the local price boom may be starting to come off the boil with a return to a more normal market Those deals are about to expire and it's hard to find a new deal for less than 6%. The sums make grim reading. A homeowner with a £180,000 mortgage, at a fixed rate of 4.25%, would be paying around £975 a month. For a new deal, at a rate of 6%, the repayments would rise by about £185 - 19% - to a much less manageable £1,160 a month. Throughout the financial services industry, fears are being expressed about a rise in repossessions once homeowners find themselves making significantly higher monthly repayments. So, is the market in Northern Ireland about to crash? No, say the economists who believe the brakes have finally gone on. "The survey shows that we are living through remarkable times in Northern Ireland," says Alan Bridle. "However in time, the first quarter of 2007 may prove to be the high watermark as far as Northern Ireland's rate of residential inflation is concerned. "Since Easter, close observation of the housing market would suggest that at long last, the local price boom may be starting to come off the boil with a return to a more normal market. "Evidence to date is largely anecdotal, but it will be a major surprise if we are not reporting a slower rate of inflation in our next survey in the late summer." AND AUDIO NEWS Yvette Shapiro reports from East Belfast NI housing market to slow in 2007 28 Feb 07 | Northern Ireland NI homeowners 'paper millionaires' 13 Feb 07 | Northern Ireland Buy-to-let boom 'may have peaked' 13 Feb 07 | Northern Ireland NI house buyers brave winter chill 24 Jan 07 | Northern Ireland Views on high house prices sought 14 Dec 06 | Northern Ireland Northern Ireland Housing Executive NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Civil service 'fortnight on sick' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/kent/6720207.stm BBC NEWS | England | Kent | Suitcase murder retrial ordered Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:57 GMT 20:57 UK murder retrial ordered The body of Terry Edmonds, 17, was found in a suitcase A retrial has been ordered in the case of a 22-year-old homeless man accused of strangling a girl and then hiding her body in a suitcase. Philip Bell, of no fixed address, had denied murdering Terry Edmonds, whose body was found in the case in Tunbridge Wells, Kent, last April. The 17-year-old had been living in a homeless hostel and was last seen alive on Easter Monday in 2006. The jury at Maidstone Crown Court said on Monday it could not reach a verdict. In a note that was read out in court, the jurors said they had reached an impasse and would not be able to come to a decision no matter how long they deliberated the evidence. The judge has ordered a retrial for January 2008. AND AUDIO NEWS Terry Edmonds' body was found in a suitcase Travel, sport, chat and more from the BBC website for Kent Her Majesty's Courts Service murder retrial ordered Pair jailed for chilli 'torture' Thirty arrests in crime crackdown MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/mid/6720539.stm BBC NEWS | Wales | Mid Wales | Health charity's funding warning Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:03 GMT 19:03 UK charity's funding warning Powys LHB said it appreciated the league's "commitment" A charity has warned health officials in Powys not to consider it a "soft option" over buying medical equipment for a town hospital. Welshpool League of Friends has spent nearly £107,000 on the Victoria Memorial Hospital during the past year. Group treasurer William Cooke said it must not "fall into the trap of being seen as the soft option". Powys Local Health Board (LHB) said it appreciated the league's "dedication and commitment". Among the items purchased by the Welshpool League of Friends was endoscopy equipment, used to test a patient's digestive system, which cost £72,025. Mr Cooke said as a result of donations to the hospital, expenditure was up £92,994 on the previous year. He added: "Whilst staff at the hospital obviously appreciate the equipment purchases that have been covered by donations from the league, it is to be hoped that Powys LHB do as well. "I sometimes wonder whether we are not taken for granted in that respect." He said he would prefer to know what equipment the hospital needed annually, and whether Powys LHB could afford the items. "The league would then be in a much better position to determine whether or not it could or should help fund them," said Mr Cooke. "In my view, the league must not fall into the trap of being seen as the soft option. It has to carefully consider its position in relation to delivery of its charitable objects at all times." In a statement, the LHB said it "appreciates all the hard work, dedication and commitment demonstrated by the League of Friends in Welshpool who continue to support the LHB in fulfilling the needs of patients and staff in the Welshpool area." a look at the latest from around the region Inquiry into Powys health board 27 Mar 07 | Mid Wales Hospital to treat Powys patients 22 Dec 06 | Mid Wales Health consultation to be delayed 30 Nov 06 | Mid Wales Powys Local Health Board MID WALES STORIES Health charity's funding warning Man drowned in canoe capsize Presenter opens lapwing reserve MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/wales/south_east/6720927.stm BBC NEWS | Wales | South East Wales | Water tank crashes onto baby pen Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:04 GMT 21:04 UK tank crashes onto baby pen The tank containing hot water crashed through the ceiling A family has said their 10-month-old baby girl is lucky to be alive after a hot water tank crashed through the ceiling onto her playpen. Roshan Devonish said daughter Amy would normally have been in the pen in their home at Gwaelod-y-Garth near Cardiff. However, because Mrs Devonish was late getting her up, Amy was actually asleep elsewhere in the Grade II listed chapel conversion. Amy's father, Stan Devonish, said the family had had a lucky escape. Mrs Devonish, 38, heard the hot water tank come crashing through the ceiling. Amy would not have stood a chance She said: "When I heard the noise I knew something was wrong. I looked up and I could see dust coming from the ceiling - I just instinctively grabbed Amy and ran out of the house. "With that there was a mighty crash and the water tank came through and landed on the playpen. "Our instinct was to get out of the house as fast as we could." Mrs Devonish said the impact of what could have happened "doesn't bear thinking about". The family said they were lucky nobody was hurt She added: "It was only because we had a few things to do that I was slightly late in getting her up." Experts have been called in to the converted chapel to examine the cause of the accident. The family, who run a wine company, have moved into a hotel while their home is repaired. It could take six months to repair the former chapel, but Mr Devonish, 39, said: "We'll get it put back to the way it was, so nobody has to worry about the building itself, but we're just pleased that we're all ok and nobody was hurt. "It's frightening when you think what could have happened - Amy would not have stood a chance." out more about what is going on across the region No buried treasure in water tank 06 Sep 05 | Kent TOP SOUTH EAST WALES STORIES Botulism checks over market plan Water tank crashes onto baby pen Four injured in caravan accident MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/wales/south_west/6720983.stm BBC NEWS | Wales | South West Wales | Five in hospital after accident Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation BBC News in video and audio Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 20:11 GMT 21:11 UK in hospital after accident Five people have been taken to hospital after a 4x4 vehicle rolled onto its roof on the A40 in Carmarthenshire. One casualty was transported by police helicopter, according to a spokesperson for the Mid and West Wales Fire Service. It is understood all five people were inside the vehicle at the time of the incident near Cwmifor, Llandeilo. The other four casualties were taken by ambulance to hospital with severe back injuries. views, travel and more from across the region Mid and West Wales Fire Service SOUTH WEST WALES STORIES Death crash driver 'fell asleep' Five in hospital after accident Royal harpist prepares for debut MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6720541.stm BBC NEWS | England | Beds/Bucks/Herts | Family tied up in home by raiders Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:44 GMT 18:44 UK tied up in home by raiders A family was tied up by three armed men while carried out an aggravated burglary on their Buckinghamshire home. The masked men, who were armed with knives and hammers, forced their way into the house in Bakers Wood, Denham, early on Saturday morning. Jewellery, laptops and cash cards were seized by the raiders, who forced their victims to reveal their pin numbers. The men, who wore dark clothing and balaclavas, then restrained the family and barricaded them in their bathroom. Police want to trace the occupants of a silver hatchback or saloon car which was seen driving around the area at the time of the burglary. Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more found in hunt for woman Man arrested over fatal M40 crash Double decker loses roof in crash MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lincolnshire/6720413.stm BBC NEWS | England | Lincolnshire | Man charged over post office raid Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:13 GMT 19:13 UK charged over post office raid A 45-year-old man has been charged in connection with a robbery at a post office in Lincoln. Alain Brown, from Lincoln, was charged on Monday with robbing the post office at St-Peter-at-Gowt's on the High Street in Lincoln on 1 February. A quantity of cash was taken in the robbery and police asked for witnesses to come forward. Mr Brown is due to appear before Lincoln magistrates on Friday to answer the robbery charges. environment, sport and more from the BBC website for Lincolnshire charged with brother's murder Man charged over post office raid Sport hall delay tactic defeated MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/tees/6720233.stm BBC NEWS | England | Tees | Bird haven saved from drying out Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:35 GMT 18:35 UK haven saved from drying out The park at Saltholme has been saved from drying out A Teesside nature reserve currently under construction has been saved from drying out after a firm donated water. More than 1,000 acres (400 hectares) of former industrial land on the north Tees at Saltholme is being transformed into a wild bird nature reserve. But the site was in danger of drying out until nearby chemical firm Sabic UK piped in several thousand cubic metres of water to combat dry weather. Already 30 pairs of lapwings, redshanks and snipes have moved to the site. A spokesman for the RSPB, which is helping to develop the site, said: "Wetland-loving birds such as lapwing and snipe were showing little signs of wanting to nest in the dry conditions. "However, thanks to some nifty lateral thinking, the RSPB has teamed up with local industry to bring Saltholme meadows back to life and the site is now teeming with nesting wetland birds. "A supply of water has been brought to the area thanks to the help of local company Sabic UK who are 'donating' the water - a by-product of their brine production management operations. "The water might otherwise have gone unused, but is now providing a lifeline for breeding birds." The nature reserve is due to open next year and is expected to attract 100,000 visitors a year. travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Tees Landmark for nature reserve plan 02 Aug 06 | Tees Nature reserve manager appointed 14 Jan 06 | Tees Wild bird centre design unveiled 15 Oct 05 | Tees Land deal heralds nature reserve 30 May 05 | Tees Big Tees bird plan moves forward 17 Nov 04 | Science/Nature hope patient to stay home Crash driver 'knew of collision' Bird haven saved from drying out MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/nottinghamshire/6720669.stm BBC NEWS | England | Nottinghamshire | Baseball bat gang robs restaurant Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:15 GMT 19:15 UK bat gang robs restaurant An armed gang has robbed an Indian restaurant in Nottingham, police say. A group of four men armed with baseball bats and wearing balaclavas went into the Bombay Takeaway on Hucknall Road at about 2300 BST on Friday. The men threatened a member of staff before jumping over the counter and stealing cash from the till. The group was seen running away towards Teesdale Road and Weirdale Road and police have asked anyone with information to contact them. travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Nottingham dies while trying to escape Baseball bat gang robs restaurant Mother angry at treatment on bus MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lancashire/6720951.stm BBC NEWS | England | Lancashire | Man dies following river rescue Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:24 GMT 20:24 UK dies following river rescue Police in Lancashire are investigating the death of a man who was pulled from a river. Officers were alerted by the landlady of a pub who saw the man floating in the River Lune, Lancaster, on Monday. Police, firefighters and a lifeboat team were called in to pull out the man, who was pronounced dead after arrival at Lancaster Royal Infirmary. Investigations into how the man - who has not been formally identified - came to be in the river are ongoing. and features on the BBC's Lancashire website dies following river rescue Steeplejack dies in chimney fall Murder-charge mother found dead MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/oxfordshire/6720991.stm BBC NEWS | England | Oxfordshire | Patrol officer finds stabbed man Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:57 GMT 20:57 UK officer finds stabbed man A man has undergone major surgery after being stabbed in an Oxfordshire town. The 22-year-old was discovered by a police patrol in Mill Street, Wantage, early on Sunday morning. An ambulance was called and he was taken to the John Radcliffe Hospital, where he underwent surgery for three stab wounds to his lower torso. Police said the injured man is in a serious but stable condition. An 18-year-old man has been arrested and remains in police custody in Abingdon. games and chat on the BBC's Oxfordshire website of Eve in DNA paintings Watchdog investigates smelly bins Patrol officer finds stabbed man MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/cumbria/6720295.stm BBC NEWS | England | Cumbria | Bug deaths water was 'untreated' Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:44 GMT 18:44 UK deaths water was 'untreated' The outbreak was traced to an air conditioning unit at Forum 28 An air conditioning unit at the centre of a fatal legionnaires' disease outbreak had not been maintained for more than a year, an inquest has heard. Seven people died in 2002 after an alley outside the Forum 28 arts complex in Barrow, Cumbria, was showered with water droplets containing the bacteria. Barrow Council, which runs Forum 28, and contractors Interserve said the chemical treatment was not carried out. The inquest opened on Monday at Furness Magistrates' Court. On Monday, the coroner heard how a string of contractors had been responsible for air conditioning at the arts centre. When Interserve took over in 2001, there was no formal contract, and there was confusion over who was responsible for treating the system. Without the required chemicals, the water became a breeding ground for legionnella bacteria. Consultant in health protection, Dr Nick Gent, said that those who died did so as a result of contracting legionnaires' disease. Gillian Beckingham was convicted of health and safety breaches They were Richard Macauley, 89, Wendy Milburn, 56, Georgina Sommerville, 54, Harriet Low, 74, Elizabeth Dixon, 80, June Miles, 56, and Christina Merewood, 55. A further 180 people were infected. Barrow Council was later cleared of corporate manslaughter following the deaths, but fined £125,000 for breaching health and safety laws. The council's then design services manager, Gillian Beckingham, was convicted of health and safety breaches, but cleared of manslaughter. Ms Beckingham will not be appearing at the inquest, expected to last for about a week, because of poor health. leisure and more from the BBC website for Cumbria 'Errors' led to Legionella deaths 03 Apr 07 | Cumbria Inquest into bug death outbreak 12 Mar 07 | Cumbria Hearings begin into bug outbreak 04 Dec 06 | Cumbria How Legionnaires' struck Barrow 31 Jul 06 | Cumbria Bug death council worker cleared 31 Jul 06 | Cumbria 'Lethal' droplets showered public 09 Feb 05 | Cumbria deaths water was 'untreated' Woman dies in island chalet blaze Play money used to con pensioner MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/west_yorkshire/6720793.stm BBC NEWS | England | West Yorkshire | Velcade Three welcome NHS scheme Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:30 GMT 20:30 UK Three welcome NHS scheme Janice Wrigglesworth is one of the women fighting for the drug Three women who launched a legal battle in a bid to receive a life-extending bone marrow cancer drug have welcomed a new scheme to make it more available. The so-called Velcade Three, Janice Wrigglesworth, Jacky Pickles and Marie Morton, from Keighley, West Yorkshire, said they were "elated" by the news. A watchdog has endorsed a new scheme under which bone marrow-cancer drug Velcade will be available on the NHS. The drug's manufacturers will refund the NHS if a patient does not respond. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) said the NHS should pay for the drug, which costs about £18,000 per patient, only when it worked. Drug manufacturer Janssen-Cilag proposed the scheme, which is the first of its kind. Ms Wrigglesworth told the BBC: "We know it is not a miracle cure or anything like that but what we are looking at is that it is going to give us a longer length of time to spend with our families, which is vital to us. "Also it is not just the time, it is the quality of life that is important as well and we believe this will give us that. "There are times when . . . we have been quite down but then when the drug company told us that they had made this offer, that buoyed us up tremendously. "They are putting their money where their mouth is." Bradford and West Yorkshire Culture, leisure, travel, message boards and more Cancer-drug refund scheme backed 03 Jun 07 | Health Fight for cancer drug continues 20 Oct 06 | Bradford Women's legal bid for cancer drug 28 Aug 06 | Bradford High hopes for blood cancer drug 18 May 04 | Health European Medicines Evaluation Agency WEST YORKSHIRE STORIES Velcade Three welcome NHS scheme Bates regains Leeds Utd control Police 'attacked' by partygoers MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/northamptonshire/6720613.stm BBC NEWS | England | Northamptonshire | Two men are sought in sex attack Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:13 GMT 19:13 UK men are sought in sex attack A woman had her head banged against a wall as she was subjected to a sexual assault in Northamptonshire. The victim was assaulted outside Bar Life in Commercial Way, Wellingborough, early on 2 June. A second man kept watch while the attack took place. Both men are described as white with dark hair and they were both wearing blue jeans. Northamptonshire Police are appealing to anyone who witnessed the attack to come forward with information. travel, chat and more from the BBC in Northamptonshire crushed by pet food machine Two men are sought in sex attack Armed police called to incident MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/manchester/6719621.stm BBC NEWS | England | Manchester | Steeplejack dies in chimney fall Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:59 GMT 18:59 UK dies in chimney fall An investigation into the death is under way A steeplejack has been killed falling from a mill chimney in Greater Manchester, police say. The man, who was in his 40s, fell about 300ft (91m) from the chimney on Higher Swan Lane in the Great Lever area of Bolton at 1320 BST on Monday. It is believed the man, who was from Blackburn, was taking down scaffolding at the time of the incident. He suffered multiple injuries and was pronounced dead at the scene, within Swan Lane Business Centre. An investigation is under way into the cause of the accident. There are not thought to be any suspicious circumstances and the Health and Safety Executive has been informed. and features on the BBC's Manchester website Greater Manchester Ambulance Service dies in chimney fall Man charged over pensioner death Ex-marine deported after sentence MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/northern_ireland/6720523.stm BBC NEWS | Northern Ireland | Hijacker abducts man at gunpoint Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 17:46 GMT 18:46 UK abducts man at gunpoint A takeaway driver has been treated for injuries to his stomach and ribs after his car was hijacked in west Belfast. The 23-year-old was making a delivery on Carrygart Avenue at 0100 BST on Monday when a masked man with a shotgun got in and threatened to shoot him. His hands were taped to the steering wheel and he was made to drive away. The hijacker then got into the driver's seat and drove around Poleglass and Twinbrook for 30 minutes before forcing him out on the Upper Springfield Road. The victim was injured when he had to dive out of the way of his car when it was driven away at speed. The car - a black Vauxhall Corsa - was later found abandoned in Dunmurry. The hijacker was described as being about 5ft 10ins tall, of medium build. He was wearing a green combat jacket, dark jeans and surgical gloves. Police believe he was dropped off in a taxi a short time before he hijacked the car. They have appealed for witnesses to contact them. NORTHERN IRELAND STORIES Rodgers gets city's top civic job Saville will not get to 'truth' Civil service 'fortnight on sick' MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/coventry_warwickshire/6719607.stm BBC NEWS | England | Coventry/Warwickshire | Man found injured by steps dies Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:47 GMT 19:47 UK found injured by steps dies A man who was taken to hospital with serious injuries after being found lying near some steps has died. Ambulance crews found the 46-year-old outside a social club in Fife Street in Nuneaton, Warwickshire, on Friday. He was taken to the George Elliot Hospital with head and neck injuries and then transferred to Coventry's University Hospital where he died. A 45-year-old man has been arrested and Warwickshire Police are appealing for any witnesses to contact them. Coventry and Warwickshire Sport, travel, leisure, message boards and much more crushed by pet food machine Lightning victim recovering well Man found injured by steps dies MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6720961.stm BBC NEWS | England | London | Two held in 'masked' gunman death Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 19:38 GMT 20:38 UK held in 'masked' gunman death Police believe Mr Tredinnick had driven to Romford Two men have been arrested in connection with the murder of a man shot by masked gunmen. Mark Tredinnick, 39, was found by police officers in Romford, east London on Friday afternoon. Mr Tredinnick, of Collier Row, east London, was treated at the scene but died later in hospital. Two men from Broadstairs in Kent are being transferred to London for questioning. Police believe the victim, who had driven to Benskins Lane in Romford in his white BMW, was shot when he walked towards a parked white Vauxhall Astra van. It is thought that the gunman emerged from nearby shrubbery. The van was abandoned at the scene. Detectives have said they want to hear from anyone who saw two white men loitering near the white Vauxhall Astra van found close to the scene of the murder. A post-mortem examination found gunshot wounds as the cause of death. probe after man shot dead 02 Jun 07 | England sex abuse conductor jailed Body sparks murder inquiry City boss held after girl injured MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/help/3223484.stm BBC NEWS | Help | RSS | News feeds from the BBC Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it News feeds from the BBC What are news feeds? How can I use them? How do I get a news reader? Can I use these feeds on my site? Can I create my own BBC News feeds? What are News Feeds? News feeds allow you to see when websites have added new content. You can get the latest headlines and video in one place, as soon as its published, without having to visit the websites you have taken the feed from. Feeds are also known as RSS. There is some discussion as to what RSS stands for, but most people plump for 'Really Simple Syndication'. In essence, the feeds themselves are just web pages, designed to be read by computers rather than people. How do I start using feeds? In general, the first thing you need is something called a news reader. This is a piece of software that checks the feeds and lets you read any new articles that have been added. There are many different versions, some of which are accessed using a browser, and some of which are downloadable applications. Browser-based news readers let you catch up with your RSS feed subscriptions from any computer, whereas downloadable applications let you store them on your main computer, in the same way that you either download your e-mail using Outlook, or keep it on a web-based service like Hotmail. Once you have chosen a news reader, all you have to do is to decide what content you want it to receive. For example, if you would like the latest BBC News Entertainment stories, simply visit the Entertainment section and you will notice an orange button on the left hand side. If you would like the latest BBC News World video stories, visit the Video and Audio section of the BBC News Website (www.bbc.co.uk/newsvideoaudio ) and click on the button at the bottom of the World section. If you click on the RSS button you can subscribe to the feed in various ways, including by dragging the URL of the feed into your news reader or by cutting and pasting the same URL into a new feed in your news reader. Most sites that offer feeds use a similar orange button, but some may just have a normal web link. Some browsers, including Firefox, Opera and Safari, automatically check for feeds for you when you visit a website, and display an icon when they find one. This can make subscribing to feeds much easier. For more details on these, please check their websites. Other News Readers (GOOGLE) do I get a news reader? There is a range of different news readers available and new versions are appearing all the time. Different news readers work on different operating systems, so you will need to choose one that will work with your computer. Using BBC News feeds on your site If you run your own website, you can display the latest headlines from other websites on your own site using RSS. We encourage the use of BBC News feeds as part of a website, however, we do require that the proper format and attribution is used when BBC News content appears. The attribution text should read "BBC News" or "bbc.co.uk/news" as appropriate. You may not use any BBC logo or other BBC trademark. We reserve the right to prevent the distribution of BBC News content and the BBC does not accept any liability for its feeds. Please see the Can I make my own feeds? It is possible to create your own feeds, by using the BBC News search engine. The first step is to choose a search term, and type it into the search engine as normal. When your search results load, then choose the "BBC News & Sport" tab. Review the new results, and if they accurately reflect the topic you have chosen you can now use the orange feeds button to add the selection to your news reader, or to your website. Full programmes and highlights to download Sign up to a range of newsletters Download the news ticker and alerts service Get the top stories, wherever you are Get BBC News Select Audio headlines on your mobile Video headlines on your mobile Breaking news SMS alerts Let the news come to you Week At a Glance SELECTION OF VIDEO RSS FEEDS How To Speed-Read the Net Working the web: Newsreaders Bootcamp 299: RSS - a better way to surf? POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/somerset/6720655.stm BBC NEWS | England | Somerset | Area evacuated after rocket found Skip to bbc.co.uk navigation Your news when you want it Also in the news Monday, 4 June 2007, 18:12 GMT 19:12 UK evacuated after rocket found Parts of a beach and nearby caravan park were evacuated after a suspected World War II bomb was found. Bomb disposal officers worked to make the area safe after the device was discovered in Doniford Bay, near Watchet, Somerset. An Avon and Somerset Police spokesman said it was believed the 1943 barrage rocket may have been washed up onto the shore by the tide. The device was discovered by a member of the public on Monday. going out, views and more from the BBC website for Somerset Avon and Somerset Constabulary evacuated after rocket found Dotcom student to make millions Ballot on council reform proposal MOST POPULAR STORIES NOW Moroccan family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West alternative Olympic logos Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream? Back to top ^^ Privacy and cookies policy
