http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7744602.html ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture May 30, 2007 at 7:32 2007 at 2:40 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A Boeing Co. subsidiary that may have provided secret CIA flight services was sued Wednesday by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of three terrorism suspects who claim they were tortured by the U.S. government. The lawsuit charges that flight services provided by Jeppesen Dataplan Inc. enabled the clandestine transportation of the suspects to secret overseas locations, where they were tortured and subjected to other "forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment." The ACLU said the company "either knew or reasonably should have known" that they were facilitating the torture of terrorism suspects by providing flight services for the CIA. Companies "are not allowed to have their heads in the sand, and take money from the CIA to fly people, hooded and shackled, to foreign countries to be tortured," ACLU attorney Ben Wizner said. Boeing itself is not named in the lawsuit and would not confirm the reports of a Jeppesen-CIA link, said spokesman Tim Neale, adding that customers have a confidentiality clause. Jeppesen Dataplan says it provides services such as flight plans, fuel and airport data to airlines, private pilots and various companies, but it doesn't ask its customers for details of their business. "We don't know the purpose of the trip for which we do a flight plan," said Mike Pound, a spokesman for the Englewood, Colo.-based Jeppesen. "We don't need to know specific details. It's the customer's business, and we do the business that we are contracted for," he said. "It's not our practice to ever inquire about the purpose of a trip." Jeppesen had no immediate comment on specifics of the lawsuit. The lawsuit was filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, but announced in New York City. The three detainees have claimed through their family and lawyers that they have been tortured and abused against universally accepted legal standards. One claimed to have been routinely tortured under interrogation about al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden. Their attorneys appealed to the ACLU for assistance. The cases involve the alleged mistreatment of Binyam Mohamed, an Ethiopian citizen, in July 2002 and January 2004; Elkassim Britel, an Italian citizen, in May 2002; and Ahmed Agiza, an Egyptian citizen, in December 2001, ACLU officials said at a Manhattan news conference. Mohamed is currently being held in GuantDanamo Bay, Cuba; Britel in Morocco and Agiza in Egypt, the ACLU said. The ACLU says the suspects were apprehended under the U.S. government's "extraordinary rendition program." Extraordinary rendition is the clandestine capture and transfer of suspects to be detained and interrogated in countries where the protection of U.S. laws do not apply, according to Wizner. "American corporations should not be profiting from a CIA rendition program that is unlawful and contrary to core American values," said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the ACLU. "Corporations that choose to participate in such activity can and should be held legally accountable." Neither the CIA nor the U.S. government is named in the lawsuit. Wizner said the executive branch has evoked a state secrets defense in similar lawsuits. The Bush administration has insisted it receives guarantees from countries receiving terror suspects that prisoners will not be tortured.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7725322.html Russia's top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s A computer image of the new Boeing 787 is shown on a heads-up display in the 787 Engineering Flight Deck Simulator. May 29, 2007 at 7:13 2007 at 7:13 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - Russia's biggest domestic air carrier, S7, signed a deal with Boeing Co. to expand its fleet with 15 new 787 aircraft, the company said Tuesday. Under the terms of the deal, S7 would receive the first seven planes in 2014 under an operating lease agreement, the company said in a statement. S7 also would have the right to acquire 10 more aircraft, it said. The deal was valued at $2.4 billion, based on the catalog price for 25 787s. The contract "will allow us not only to retain the position of Russia's leading carrier but expand the gap between our competitors," said Valdislav Filyov, general Director of OAO Sibir, which controls S7. The order is welcome news for Boeing in Russia. The U.S. plane manufacturer's efforts to reach a major deal with Aeroflot have been stymied by what some analysts say is the chill in relations between Washington and Moscow. S7, formerly Sibir, is Russia's second-largest airline after Aeroflot though it leads the flagship carrier in terms of domestic passenger volume.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7621411.html First 787 taking shape on new production line 787 taking shape on new production line May 21, 2007 at 8:06 PM PDT May 21, 2007 at 8:15 PM PDT EVERETT - This is a milestone day for Boeing. The final assembly is under way on the first 787 Dreamliner. It won't roll out the hangar doors for another seven weeks. But we got a sneak peek Monday as Boeing held its 787 factory grand opening. The 787 is Boeing's first new plane in more than a decade. And everything about it, from the parts to how they're assembled, is new. "It's overwhelming at times," says Don Bryant, a Boeing engineer. "You scratch it off and go to the next step. We're good at that. Boeing's been around a long time and it's gonna be around a long time to come." That optimism comes with the unprecedented demand brought on by the 787. Boeing has raked in 568 orders, taking delivery into 2013. The midsize, long haul jet will be quieter and more fuel efficient, burning 20 percent less fuel than comparable planes. "I don't think anyone would've thought that fuel prices, including jet fuel prices would be as high as they are today," says Boeing's Vice President of 787 Manufacturing, Steve Westby. "So it's been very attractive to our airline customers with the fuel efficiency this airplane offers." Boeing is building the jet's parts around the world in six countries and then flying the massive pieces here in the Dreamlifter -- a 747 modified to do the job. Everett workers basically snap the parts together. It's a whole new process for Boeing but one the company says is leaner, innovative and more environmentally friendly. The final assembly process will eventually take just three days. While Boeing takes criticism for outsourcing work, locals can celebrate the fact that the Dreamliner's final touches happen in the same plant where the idea for the plane was born. "This has been an incredible journey," says Bryant. "It has been an experience of a lifetime. It's all coming together here." The first 787 will roll out on July 8th, or 7-8-07. Boeing will build and test fly six of the planes. Then the seventh will be the first one to actually go to a customer, All Nippon Airways in Japan. That plane rolls out in one year.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7673507.html Boeing scores in Airbus' backyard scores in Airbus' backyard May 24, 2007 at 2:39 PM PDT May 24, 2007 at 2:48 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Air France-KLM, the world's largest airline by revenue, said Thursday it plans to upgrade its fleet and order 18 new planes from Boeing Co., worth about $4.4 billion at list prices. Air France said in a statement it plans to replace 13 747-400 passenger and five 747-400 cargo aircraft with extended-range 777-300ERs and 777 freighters. The airline said higher fuel costs and environmental concerns prompted the decision to upgrade. Air France also announced it will buy 12 and lease 18 A320/321 planes from Boeing's French rival, Airbus. And it said it ordered two additional Airbus A380s, bringing its total orders for the much-delayed superjumbo to 12. The decisions to order new aircraft were announced during a news conference to discuss the company's annual financial results. "The Boeing Co. is pleased that the Air France-KLM Group has again selected the 777-300ER for its fleet requirements. Boeing looks forward to finalizing the order," said Jim Condelles, a Boeing spokesman. The widebody, twin-engine 777-300ER carries 365 passengers up to 7,420 nautical miles (13,742 kilometers). Air France took delivery of the first 737-300ER to enter passenger service in April 2004, leasing it from International Lease Finance Corp. Boeing's stock hit a 52-week high Thursday at $98.84, but retreated by the close of trading. Shares gained $1.85, just under 2 percent, to end the day at $97.42. U.S.-traded shares of Air France-KLM added 48 cents to close at $49.85.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7764002.html Ryanair buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion Boeing 737 airplanes, with and without wings, sit on the assembly line at the Boeing Co.'s Renton, Wash. assembly plant. May 31, 2007 at 7:17 2007 at 7:17 AM PDT DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) - Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest discount airline, said Thursday that it ordered 27 Boeing 737-800s valued at $1.9 billion. All of the new single-aisle Boeing Co. aircraft will be fitted with technology that reduces fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. They will be delivered between September 2009 and March 2010. The list price does not necessarily indicate the amount Ryanair will pay, as airlines often negotiate discounts on large orders. The order brings Ryanair's total firm orders for Boeing 737-800s to 308 and total fleet size - including planned disposals - to 262 by 2012.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7591747.html Making the 787: Not your old, loud production line the 787: Not your old, loud production line The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are moved after being unloaded just before dawn from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan, in this May 15, 2007 file photo, in Everett. May 19, 2007 at 10:05 2007 at 12:01 PM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - When machinists start the final stages of assembling the first 787 Dreamliner, the din of pounding rivet guns won't echo through the factory as it does on production lines for Boeing Co.'s other jets. Instead of hundreds of panels of aluminum, the 787's major components are being built mostly or entirely of carbon-fiber composite materials that are essentially baked in giant pressure cookers, flown in from faraway factories, then fastened together. In the past, workers at Boeing plants have stuffed the electrical wiring, hydraulic systems and other innards into planes as they got assembled here, but with the 787, suppliers scattered all over the globe are doing that work. "Basically ... we're snapping it together," said Tom Wroblewski, president of the union representing Boeing production workers in the Seattle area. "This is a whole new way of assembling an aircraft." Boeing's Dreamlifter, the 747 superfreighter it modified to transport large parts of the Dreamliner, made the last of four deliveries for the first 787 this past week. The company will show them off Monday when it hosts a grand opening for the 787 factory line, right next to the 777 line in a plant north of Seattle. At first, the Dreamliner assembly line will look much like those of other planes, because Boeing has pulled in extra workers to install wiring in the first few planes, said Mike Bair, head of the 787 program. The company decided to start flying in unfinished parts rather than risk falling behind schedule. Eventually, there will be fewer workers on the factory floor, because it won't take as many people to join the huge prefabricated parts. So far, Boeing says everything has been running smoothly, even as some production issues have cropped up. The horizontal stabilizer that will be part of the first plane's tail arrived with dings on its surface, indicating it wasn't handled properly during the shipping process. And temporary fasteners on some parts will have to be replaced because of an industrywide shortage of permanent ones. The company expected some bumps in the road and has contingency plans to deal with them, spokeswoman Mary Hanson said. If glitches become a big enough problem, Wroblewski said machinists are eager for the chance to do more of the work themselves. "We need to be ready and available to pick up that slack and show them we can do it better than the supplier, and our hope is then that we can draw that work back," to the Seattle area, Wroblewski said. Boeing executives insist the company has ample experience managing outside suppliers that build parts for its other planes, and that it's confident the 787's manufacturing network will be a success. "All it takes is one part and you can't build an airplane," Bair said. "One bolt and you can be in trouble. So managing that is nothing new." Bair said it's unlikely that substantial amounts of work will be shifted back to the Seattle area. "Clearly the plan is to make sure that all these partners will do what they have committed that they're going to do," he said. Richard Aboulafia, an analyst with aerospace and defense consulting firm Teal Group, predicts Boeing's suppliers will make the grade, even if there are occasional snags. "I certainly expect hiccups ... but I don't think they're going to be material enough to affect the program," Aboulafia said. Boeing hasn't said how much money it has saved by having suppliers take on various development costs, but industry analyst Scott Hamilton said it's bound to be substantial. "That kind of risk-sharing, which in the aggregate runs in the billions of dollars, is money that Boeing doesn't have to front," he said. Once production hits full speed, it will take roughly 700 to 800 machinists to run the 787's final assembly line, Bair said. That's substantially less than the work force needed for Boeing's other jets, though Connie Kelliher, spokeswoman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District 751, said she couldn't offer a hard number as a comparison because the company doesn't break out employee totals by production line. The 787 is a double-edged sword for machinists. On the one hand, it has given Boeing a huge boost as it's hustled to win back the edge it once had over its European rival Airbus SAS. The company has won more than 500 orders for the midsize, long-haul jet, which Boeing says will be 20 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable jets and cheaper to maintain because composites are more durable than aluminum. Machinists handled much of the research and development Boeing used to make its business case for the 787, then winced as the work got handed off to outside suppliers. "The rub is always that if we're good enough to do the R&D, and we can prove that it's a good process, it should just stay in the skilled hands of the people that develop it," Kelliher said. Boeing has said the outsourcing was crucial to keeping development and production costs low enough to make the 787 a good enough bargain that airlines would buy it. Boeing remains on track to roll out the first plane on July 8 (i.e., 7-8-07), begin initial test flights around late August and deliver the first 787 to Japan's All Nippon Airways Co. next May. For the first two years, Bair said the company will deliver 112 planes, with final assembly of each one taking three days on average. Beyond those numbers, Boeing won't say much about the production rate it's shooting for, but Bair said the company is already working on plans to pick up the pace. "It's pretty clear that our initial thoughts about the market demand were too conservative," Bair said. Boeing has fielded so many orders for the 787, airlines that order them today won't be able to get them until 2013, the same year Airbus' competing A350 XWB is scheduled to enter commercial service.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion All of the new single-aisle Boeing Co. aircraft will be fitted with technology that reduces fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. They will be delivered between September 2009 and March 2010. ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture The American Civil Liberties Union said Wednesday it is suing Jeppesen Dataplan, Inc., a subsidiary of Boeing Co., claiming it provided secret CIA transportation services for three terrorism suspects who were tortured under the U.S. government's "extraordinary rendition" program. Russia's top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s Russia's biggest domestic air carrier, S7, signed a deal with Boeing Co. to expand its fleet with 15 new 787 aircraft, the company said Tuesday. Boeing scores in Airbus' backyard Boeing reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth Now THIS is flying First 787 taking shape on new production line Boeing Business Jets gets 7 new orders Mammoth cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 Making the 787: Not your old, loud production line New stamp will commemorate Air Force One Boeing, Machinists reach tentative pact Boeing announces order for 61 jets Wings, fuselage midsection delivered for first Boeing 787 Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Dreamlifter arrives in Everett with 787 parts Boeing sends investigators to Cameroon crash Panama's Copa Airlines orders 737s Boeing CEO: Company will overtake Airbus Boeing announces 4 more orders Boeing earnings climb 27 percent in first quarter Virgin orders 787s, teams with Boeing on biofuel Japanese factories working to meet 787 demand Air Canada orders 23 Boeing 787s Machinists authorize strike at St. Louis Boeing plants Leasing company orders 20 Boeing planes CIT Aerospace orders Boeing 737s Undisclosed customer orders 30 Boeing 787s
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7612727.html Boeing Business Jets gets 7 new orders Business Jets gets 7 new orders May 21, 2007 at 11:27 2007 at 11:27 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Boeing Co.'s business jet division said Monday it has won seven new orders so far this year, bringing the unit's total sales to 135. The latest orders are worth about $479 million at list prices, although customers typically pay less because they buy the luxury planes in "green" condition without interior furnishings or exterior paint, so they can customize them to their liking. Six are based on the narrowbody 737-700 and one is modeled off the new midsize, long-haul 787-9. Boeing did not disclose the seven customers, at their request. Private individuals comprise the biggest customer base for Boeing's business jets, followed by heads of state. Corporate and charter operators make up a smaller segment of the market, Boeing said. The company announced this year's order tally at the European Business Aviation Convention and Exhibition in Geneva, Switzerland. Boeing created its Seattle-based business jet unit in 1996 as a joint venture with General Electric Co.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7592127.html Mammoth cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 A Boeing 747 Dreamlifter, carrying the first major assembly for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, arrives from Italy, Tuesday, April 24, 2007, in Everett. May 19, 2007 at 12:04 PM PDT May 19, 2007 at 12:04 PM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - A gigantic, humpback-shaped cargo plane has been turning heads in the skies over the Seattle area for months as it's undergone hundreds of hours of flight tests. It's about to become a more common sight in a lot more places, as it begins carrying large chunks of Boeing Co.'s new 787 Dreamliner from factories in Japan and Italy, South Carolina and Kansas to the company's widebody assembly plant here. It's called the Dreamlifter - a lofty name for a jet whose bulbous fuselage has earned it no shortage of pot shots. Scott Carson, Boeing Co.'s commercial airplanes chief, drew some hearty laughs last year when he told a banquet hall full of aviation enthusiasts it was a plane "only a mother could call pretty." "Paint helps a little bit, but it's kind of like putting lipstick on a pig," quipped Mike Bair, head of Boeing's 787 program. Others look past its odd appearance and see a marvel of aeronautical engineering and manufacturing logistics. After toying with various design concepts, from a pod on top of the plane to a large side door, engineers decided to lop off the top of a 747-400 passenger plane, fatten up the fuselage, then add hinges to one side of the tail so it can swing open. Boeing buys the 747s used, strips them down and turns them into Dreamlifters in Taipei. Once the top gets torn off, "it literally looks like a flatbed truck," said Mike Bunney, director of global logistics for the 787 program. "Some people have jokingly referred to it as Topless in Taipei." Two Dreamlifters are flying as Boeing awaits certification from the Federal Aviation Administration. A third is being modified in Taipei, and a fourth is waiting its turn. At 65,000 cubic feet, the Dreamlifter's cargo capacity is more than twice that of the 747 freighters that shipping companies like United Parcel Service Inc. fly. A less eye-catching but equally important piece of the Dreamlifter puzzle is a long, 32-wheeled cargo loader that drives up to the open-tailed freighter and pulls out fuselage sections, wings, whatever shipment the plane is carrying. The loader is "designed to be kind of one-stop shopping," Bunney said. "You can get parts in and out of the airplane then move them around the factory site with the same device, so it simplified the whole logistics process." Without the Dreamlifter, Boeing would have to wait several weeks for certain 787 parts made entirely or mostly of light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites to arrive by sea, leaving "an unbelievable amount of in-process inventory out bobbing around on the ocean," Bair said. Another problem: Some parts, like the wings and center fuselage, are so large they won't fit in standard shipping containers. "If we had decided to do ocean shipping, we probably would've had to buy our own ships," Bair said. This is the first time Boeing has designed a plane simply to play a supporting role in the production of another plane. Airbus SAS has been flying its own superfreighter, nicknamed the "Beluga," since the mid-1990s to carry fuselage sections and wings from factories around Europe to its final assembly lines in Toulouse, France, and Hamburg, Germany. Its fleet of five Belugas has also been used for charter missions to transport space station modules, chemical tanks, even a large French painting. The Beluga is smaller than the Dreamlifter, though the bulge on the top half of its fuselage is much more pronounced than the Dreamlifter's, and it opens up at the nose rather than the tail. Ironically enough, from the 1970s to early 1990s, Airbus ran a fleet of four modified Boeing 377 Stratocruisers nicknamed "Super Guppies" to transport plane parts from factories to final assembly plants. Airbus spokeswoman MaryAnne Greczyn said the Beluga will be used to transport parts of the A350, the midsize jet Airbus is developing to compete with the 787, but the fuselage will probably have to be shipped some other way because it's expected to be too large for the Beluga.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7634731.html Now THIS is flying THIS is flying May 22, 2007 at 2:57 PM PDT May 22, 2007 at 2:57 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - There's flying first class... and then there's flying VIP. Boeing has some ideas for the people who like to travel in luxury. At an aviation conference in Geneva, Boeing showed off designs for a VIP 747-8 -- its largest luxury jet with 5,000 square feet of cabin space. Possible features include vaulted ceilings, a spiral staircase and video wall displays. Boeing delivers the plane without the interior furnishing or exterior paint. Customers work with designers to personalize the interiors. Boeing says there are currently 22 of the 747s in VIP uses today. Undisclosed customers have ordered four of the 747-8 model, also called the Intercontinental, which is scheduled to enter commercial service in 2010.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7647662.html Boeing reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth Boeing engineer Jack Butcher flies a flight simulator as computer images of downtown Seattle appear on the flight deck screens. May 23, 2007 at 8:48 2007 at 8:48 AM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Boeing Co. reaffirmed its outlook Wednesday for strong growth in 2007 and 2008, telling investors it remains on pace for double-digit increases in earnings and revenue as it rides momentum linked to the new 787 jet. The upbeat assessment came at the aerospace company's annual investor conference in Chicago at a time when Boeing is fast closing in on Airbus for the title of world's leading commercial airplane maker. Chief Executive Jim McNerney dismissed the notion of a tapering-off in orders for commercial jets amid sizzling sales of the 787, which has racked up 567 customer orders from at least 44 different customers even before the first model rolls off the assembly line. "The U.S. and European legacy carriers have yet to order in any substantial quantities," he said in a response to an analyst's question at the meeting, which was webcast. "So we don't see an immediate end to the cycle." Boeing held to forecasts for earnings of between $4.55 and $4.75 per share in 2007 on revenue between $64.5 billion and $65 billion. In 2008, profits are expected to grow to $5.55-$5.75 per share on revenue of $71 billion to $72 billion. "No matter how you look at it, Boeing is off to a strong start in 2007," said Chief Financial Officer James Bell. The Chicago-based company last month reported 27 percent higher first-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street projections. McNerney said then that it is on pace to overtake Airbus in airplane deliveries by early next year, helped by the momentum generated by the 787. The new plane is scheduled to enter commercial service next May. It's the first commercial jet that will be made mostly of light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites instead of aluminum and is said to be 20 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable jets. Boeing said it is on track to roll out the first plane by July 8, which will be used for test flights slated to begin around late August. Shares in the company edged down 23 cents to $96.25 in morning trading, two days after reaching their latest all-time high of $97.74.
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7744602.html ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture May 30, 2007 at 7:32 2007 at 2:40 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A Boeing Co. subsidiary that may have provided secret CIA flight services was sued Wednesday by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of three terrorism suspects who claim they were tortured by the U.S. government. The lawsuit charges that flight services provided by Jeppesen Dataplan Inc. enabled the clandestine transportation of the suspects to secret overseas locations, where they were tortured and subjected to other "forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment." The ACLU said the company "either knew or reasonably should have known" that they were facilitating the torture of terrorism suspects by providing flight services for the CIA. Companies "are not allowed to have their heads in the sand, and take money from the CIA to fly people, hooded and shackled, to foreign countries to be tortured," ACLU attorney Ben Wizner said. Boeing itself is not named in the lawsuit and would not confirm the reports of a Jeppesen-CIA link, said spokesman Tim Neale, adding that customers have a confidentiality clause. Jeppesen Dataplan says it provides services such as flight plans, fuel and airport data to airlines, private pilots and various companies, but it doesn't ask its customers for details of their business. "We don't know the purpose of the trip for which we do a flight plan," said Mike Pound, a spokesman for the Englewood, Colo.-based Jeppesen. "We don't need to know specific details. It's the customer's business, and we do the business that we are contracted for," he said. "It's not our practice to ever inquire about the purpose of a trip." Jeppesen had no immediate comment on specifics of the lawsuit. The lawsuit was filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, but announced in New York City. The three detainees have claimed through their family and lawyers that they have been tortured and abused against universally accepted legal standards. One claimed to have been routinely tortured under interrogation about al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden. Their attorneys appealed to the ACLU for assistance. The cases involve the alleged mistreatment of Binyam Mohamed, an Ethiopian citizen, in July 2002 and January 2004; Elkassim Britel, an Italian citizen, in May 2002; and Ahmed Agiza, an Egyptian citizen, in December 2001, ACLU officials said at a Manhattan news conference. Mohamed is currently being held in GuantDanamo Bay, Cuba; Britel in Morocco and Agiza in Egypt, the ACLU said. The ACLU says the suspects were apprehended under the U.S. government's "extraordinary rendition program." Extraordinary rendition is the clandestine capture and transfer of suspects to be detained and interrogated in countries where the protection of U.S. laws do not apply, according to Wizner. "American corporations should not be profiting from a CIA rendition program that is unlawful and contrary to core American values," said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the ACLU. "Corporations that choose to participate in such activity can and should be held legally accountable." Neither the CIA nor the U.S. government is named in the lawsuit. Wizner said the executive branch has evoked a state secrets defense in similar lawsuits. The Bush administration has insisted it receives guarantees from countries receiving terror suspects that prisoners will not be tortured. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7725322.html Russia's top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s A computer image of the new Boeing 787 is shown on a heads-up display in the 787 Engineering Flight Deck Simulator. May 29, 2007 at 7:13 2007 at 7:13 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - Russia's biggest domestic air carrier, S7, signed a deal with Boeing Co. to expand its fleet with 15 new 787 aircraft, the company said Tuesday. Under the terms of the deal, S7 would receive the first seven planes in 2014 under an operating lease agreement, the company said in a statement. S7 also would have the right to acquire 10 more aircraft, it said. The deal was valued at $2.4 billion, based on the catalog price for 25 787s. The contract "will allow us not only to retain the position of Russia's leading carrier but expand the gap between our competitors," said Valdislav Filyov, general Director of OAO Sibir, which controls S7. The order is welcome news for Boeing in Russia. The U.S. plane manufacturer's efforts to reach a major deal with Aeroflot have been stymied by what some analysts say is the chill in relations between Washington and Moscow. S7, formerly Sibir, is Russia's second-largest airline after Aeroflot though it leads the flagship carrier in terms of domestic passenger volume. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7621411.html First 787 taking shape on new production line 787 taking shape on new production line May 21, 2007 at 8:06 PM PDT May 21, 2007 at 8:15 PM PDT EVERETT - This is a milestone day for Boeing. The final assembly is under way on the first 787 Dreamliner. It won't roll out the hangar doors for another seven weeks. But we got a sneak peek Monday as Boeing held its 787 factory grand opening. The 787 is Boeing's first new plane in more than a decade. And everything about it, from the parts to how they're assembled, is new. "It's overwhelming at times," says Don Bryant, a Boeing engineer. "You scratch it off and go to the next step. We're good at that. Boeing's been around a long time and it's gonna be around a long time to come." That optimism comes with the unprecedented demand brought on by the 787. Boeing has raked in 568 orders, taking delivery into 2013. The midsize, long haul jet will be quieter and more fuel efficient, burning 20 percent less fuel than comparable planes. "I don't think anyone would've thought that fuel prices, including jet fuel prices would be as high as they are today," says Boeing's Vice President of 787 Manufacturing, Steve Westby. "So it's been very attractive to our airline customers with the fuel efficiency this airplane offers." Boeing is building the jet's parts around the world in six countries and then flying the massive pieces here in the Dreamlifter -- a 747 modified to do the job. Everett workers basically snap the parts together. It's a whole new process for Boeing but one the company says is leaner, innovative and more environmentally friendly. The final assembly process will eventually take just three days. While Boeing takes criticism for outsourcing work, locals can celebrate the fact that the Dreamliner's final touches happen in the same plant where the idea for the plane was born. "This has been an incredible journey," says Bryant. "It has been an experience of a lifetime. It's all coming together here." The first 787 will roll out on July 8th, or 7-8-07. Boeing will build and test fly six of the planes. Then the seventh will be the first one to actually go to a customer, All Nippon Airways in Japan. That plane rolls out in one year. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7673507.html Boeing scores in Airbus' backyard scores in Airbus' backyard May 24, 2007 at 2:39 PM PDT May 24, 2007 at 2:48 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Air France-KLM, the world's largest airline by revenue, said Thursday it plans to upgrade its fleet and order 18 new planes from Boeing Co., worth about $4.4 billion at list prices. Air France said in a statement it plans to replace 13 747-400 passenger and five 747-400 cargo aircraft with extended-range 777-300ERs and 777 freighters. The airline said higher fuel costs and environmental concerns prompted the decision to upgrade. Air France also announced it will buy 12 and lease 18 A320/321 planes from Boeing's French rival, Airbus. And it said it ordered two additional Airbus A380s, bringing its total orders for the much-delayed superjumbo to 12. The decisions to order new aircraft were announced during a news conference to discuss the company's annual financial results. "The Boeing Co. is pleased that the Air France-KLM Group has again selected the 777-300ER for its fleet requirements. Boeing looks forward to finalizing the order," said Jim Condelles, a Boeing spokesman. The widebody, twin-engine 777-300ER carries 365 passengers up to 7,420 nautical miles (13,742 kilometers). Air France took delivery of the first 737-300ER to enter passenger service in April 2004, leasing it from International Lease Finance Corp. Boeing's stock hit a 52-week high Thursday at $98.84, but retreated by the close of trading. Shares gained $1.85, just under 2 percent, to end the day at $97.42. U.S.-traded shares of Air France-KLM added 48 cents to close at $49.85. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7764002.html Ryanair buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion Boeing 737 airplanes, with and without wings, sit on the assembly line at the Boeing Co.'s Renton, Wash. assembly plant. May 31, 2007 at 7:17 2007 at 7:17 AM PDT DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) - Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest discount airline, said Thursday that it ordered 27 Boeing 737-800s valued at $1.9 billion. All of the new single-aisle Boeing Co. aircraft will be fitted with technology that reduces fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. They will be delivered between September 2009 and March 2010. The list price does not necessarily indicate the amount Ryanair will pay, as airlines often negotiate discounts on large orders. The order brings Ryanair's total firm orders for Boeing 737-800s to 308 and total fleet size - including planned disposals - to 262 by 2012. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7591747.html Making the 787: Not your old, loud production line the 787: Not your old, loud production line The massive wings for the first Boeing 787 "Dreamliner" are moved after being unloaded just before dawn from a super freighter "Dreamlifter" aircraft after a flight from Japan, in this May 15, 2007 file photo, in Everett. May 19, 2007 at 10:05 2007 at 12:01 PM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - When machinists start the final stages of assembling the first 787 Dreamliner, the din of pounding rivet guns won't echo through the factory as it does on production lines for Boeing Co.'s other jets. Instead of hundreds of panels of aluminum, the 787's major components are being built mostly or entirely of carbon-fiber composite materials that are essentially baked in giant pressure cookers, flown in from faraway factories, then fastened together. In the past, workers at Boeing plants have stuffed the electrical wiring, hydraulic systems and other innards into planes as they got assembled here, but with the 787, suppliers scattered all over the globe are doing that work. "Basically ... we're snapping it together," said Tom Wroblewski, president of the union representing Boeing production workers in the Seattle area. "This is a whole new way of assembling an aircraft." Boeing's Dreamlifter, the 747 superfreighter it modified to transport large parts of the Dreamliner, made the last of four deliveries for the first 787 this past week. The company will show them off Monday when it hosts a grand opening for the 787 factory line, right next to the 777 line in a plant north of Seattle. At first, the Dreamliner assembly line will look much like those of other planes, because Boeing has pulled in extra workers to install wiring in the first few planes, said Mike Bair, head of the 787 program. The company decided to start flying in unfinished parts rather than risk falling behind schedule. Eventually, there will be fewer workers on the factory floor, because it won't take as many people to join the huge prefabricated parts. So far, Boeing says everything has been running smoothly, even as some production issues have cropped up. The horizontal stabilizer that will be part of the first plane's tail arrived with dings on its surface, indicating it wasn't handled properly during the shipping process. And temporary fasteners on some parts will have to be replaced because of an industrywide shortage of permanent ones. The company expected some bumps in the road and has contingency plans to deal with them, spokeswoman Mary Hanson said. If glitches become a big enough problem, Wroblewski said machinists are eager for the chance to do more of the work themselves. "We need to be ready and available to pick up that slack and show them we can do it better than the supplier, and our hope is then that we can draw that work back," to the Seattle area, Wroblewski said. Boeing executives insist the company has ample experience managing outside suppliers that build parts for its other planes, and that it's confident the 787's manufacturing network will be a success. "All it takes is one part and you can't build an airplane," Bair said. "One bolt and you can be in trouble. So managing that is nothing new." Bair said it's unlikely that substantial amounts of work will be shifted back to the Seattle area. "Clearly the plan is to make sure that all these partners will do what they have committed that they're going to do," he said. Richard Aboulafia, an analyst with aerospace and defense consulting firm Teal Group, predicts Boeing's suppliers will make the grade, even if there are occasional snags. "I certainly expect hiccups ... but I don't think they're going to be material enough to affect the program," Aboulafia said. Boeing hasn't said how much money it has saved by having suppliers take on various development costs, but industry analyst Scott Hamilton said it's bound to be substantial. "That kind of risk-sharing, which in the aggregate runs in the billions of dollars, is money that Boeing doesn't have to front," he said. Once production hits full speed, it will take roughly 700 to 800 machinists to run the 787's final assembly line, Bair said. That's substantially less than the work force needed for Boeing's other jets, though Connie Kelliher, spokeswoman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers District 751, said she couldn't offer a hard number as a comparison because the company doesn't break out employee totals by production line. The 787 is a double-edged sword for machinists. On the one hand, it has given Boeing a huge boost as it's hustled to win back the edge it once had over its European rival Airbus SAS. The company has won more than 500 orders for the midsize, long-haul jet, which Boeing says will be 20 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable jets and cheaper to maintain because composites are more durable than aluminum. Machinists handled much of the research and development Boeing used to make its business case for the 787, then winced as the work got handed off to outside suppliers. "The rub is always that if we're good enough to do the R&D, and we can prove that it's a good process, it should just stay in the skilled hands of the people that develop it," Kelliher said. Boeing has said the outsourcing was crucial to keeping development and production costs low enough to make the 787 a good enough bargain that airlines would buy it. Boeing remains on track to roll out the first plane on July 8 (i.e., 7-8-07), begin initial test flights around late August and deliver the first 787 to Japan's All Nippon Airways Co. next May. For the first two years, Bair said the company will deliver 112 planes, with final assembly of each one taking three days on average. Beyond those numbers, Boeing won't say much about the production rate it's shooting for, but Bair said the company is already working on plans to pick up the pace. "It's pretty clear that our initial thoughts about the market demand were too conservative," Bair said. Boeing has fielded so many orders for the 787, airlines that order them today won't be able to get them until 2013, the same year Airbus' competing A350 XWB is scheduled to enter commercial service. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion All of the new single-aisle Boeing Co. aircraft will be fitted with technology that reduces fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. They will be delivered between September 2009 and March 2010. ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture The American Civil Liberties Union said Wednesday it is suing Jeppesen Dataplan, Inc., a subsidiary of Boeing Co., claiming it provided secret CIA transportation services for three terrorism suspects who were tortured under the U.S. government's "extraordinary rendition" program. Russia's top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s Russia's biggest domestic air carrier, S7, signed a deal with Boeing Co. to expand its fleet with 15 new 787 aircraft, the company said Tuesday. Boeing scores in Airbus' backyard Boeing reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth Now THIS is flying First 787 taking shape on new production line Boeing Business Jets gets 7 new orders Mammoth cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 Making the 787: Not your old, loud production line New stamp will commemorate Air Force One Boeing, Machinists reach tentative pact Boeing announces order for 61 jets Wings, fuselage midsection delivered for first Boeing 787 Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Dreamlifter arrives in Everett with 787 parts Boeing sends investigators to Cameroon crash Panama's Copa Airlines orders 737s Boeing CEO: Company will overtake Airbus Boeing announces 4 more orders Boeing earnings climb 27 percent in first quarter Virgin orders 787s, teams with Boeing on biofuel Japanese factories working to meet 787 demand Air Canada orders 23 Boeing 787s Machinists authorize strike at St. Louis Boeing plants Leasing company orders 20 Boeing planes CIT Aerospace orders Boeing 737s Undisclosed customer orders 30 Boeing 787s sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7612727.html Boeing Business Jets gets 7 new orders Business Jets gets 7 new orders May 21, 2007 at 11:27 2007 at 11:27 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Boeing Co.'s business jet division said Monday it has won seven new orders so far this year, bringing the unit's total sales to 135. The latest orders are worth about $479 million at list prices, although customers typically pay less because they buy the luxury planes in "green" condition without interior furnishings or exterior paint, so they can customize them to their liking. Six are based on the narrowbody 737-700 and one is modeled off the new midsize, long-haul 787-9. Boeing did not disclose the seven customers, at their request. Private individuals comprise the biggest customer base for Boeing's business jets, followed by heads of state. Corporate and charter operators make up a smaller segment of the market, Boeing said. The company announced this year's order tally at the European Business Aviation Convention and Exhibition in Geneva, Switzerland. Boeing created its Seattle-based business jet unit in 1996 as a joint venture with General Electric Co. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7592127.html Mammoth cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 A Boeing 747 Dreamlifter, carrying the first major assembly for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, arrives from Italy, Tuesday, April 24, 2007, in Everett. May 19, 2007 at 12:04 PM PDT May 19, 2007 at 12:04 PM PDT EVERETT, Wash. (AP) - A gigantic, humpback-shaped cargo plane has been turning heads in the skies over the Seattle area for months as it's undergone hundreds of hours of flight tests. It's about to become a more common sight in a lot more places, as it begins carrying large chunks of Boeing Co.'s new 787 Dreamliner from factories in Japan and Italy, South Carolina and Kansas to the company's widebody assembly plant here. It's called the Dreamlifter - a lofty name for a jet whose bulbous fuselage has earned it no shortage of pot shots. Scott Carson, Boeing Co.'s commercial airplanes chief, drew some hearty laughs last year when he told a banquet hall full of aviation enthusiasts it was a plane "only a mother could call pretty." "Paint helps a little bit, but it's kind of like putting lipstick on a pig," quipped Mike Bair, head of Boeing's 787 program. Others look past its odd appearance and see a marvel of aeronautical engineering and manufacturing logistics. After toying with various design concepts, from a pod on top of the plane to a large side door, engineers decided to lop off the top of a 747-400 passenger plane, fatten up the fuselage, then add hinges to one side of the tail so it can swing open. Boeing buys the 747s used, strips them down and turns them into Dreamlifters in Taipei. Once the top gets torn off, "it literally looks like a flatbed truck," said Mike Bunney, director of global logistics for the 787 program. "Some people have jokingly referred to it as Topless in Taipei." Two Dreamlifters are flying as Boeing awaits certification from the Federal Aviation Administration. A third is being modified in Taipei, and a fourth is waiting its turn. At 65,000 cubic feet, the Dreamlifter's cargo capacity is more than twice that of the 747 freighters that shipping companies like United Parcel Service Inc. fly. A less eye-catching but equally important piece of the Dreamlifter puzzle is a long, 32-wheeled cargo loader that drives up to the open-tailed freighter and pulls out fuselage sections, wings, whatever shipment the plane is carrying. The loader is "designed to be kind of one-stop shopping," Bunney said. "You can get parts in and out of the airplane then move them around the factory site with the same device, so it simplified the whole logistics process." Without the Dreamlifter, Boeing would have to wait several weeks for certain 787 parts made entirely or mostly of light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites to arrive by sea, leaving "an unbelievable amount of in-process inventory out bobbing around on the ocean," Bair said. Another problem: Some parts, like the wings and center fuselage, are so large they won't fit in standard shipping containers. "If we had decided to do ocean shipping, we probably would've had to buy our own ships," Bair said. This is the first time Boeing has designed a plane simply to play a supporting role in the production of another plane. Airbus SAS has been flying its own superfreighter, nicknamed the "Beluga," since the mid-1990s to carry fuselage sections and wings from factories around Europe to its final assembly lines in Toulouse, France, and Hamburg, Germany. Its fleet of five Belugas has also been used for charter missions to transport space station modules, chemical tanks, even a large French painting. The Beluga is smaller than the Dreamlifter, though the bulge on the top half of its fuselage is much more pronounced than the Dreamlifter's, and it opens up at the nose rather than the tail. Ironically enough, from the 1970s to early 1990s, Airbus ran a fleet of four modified Boeing 377 Stratocruisers nicknamed "Super Guppies" to transport plane parts from factories to final assembly plants. Airbus spokeswoman MaryAnne Greczyn said the Beluga will be used to transport parts of the A350, the midsize jet Airbus is developing to compete with the 787, but the fuselage will probably have to be shipped some other way because it's expected to be too large for the Beluga. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7634731.html Now THIS is flying THIS is flying May 22, 2007 at 2:57 PM PDT May 22, 2007 at 2:57 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - There's flying first class... and then there's flying VIP. Boeing has some ideas for the people who like to travel in luxury. At an aviation conference in Geneva, Boeing showed off designs for a VIP 747-8 -- its largest luxury jet with 5,000 square feet of cabin space. Possible features include vaulted ceilings, a spiral staircase and video wall displays. Boeing delivers the plane without the interior furnishing or exterior paint. Customers work with designers to personalize the interiors. Boeing says there are currently 22 of the 747s in VIP uses today. Undisclosed customers have ordered four of the 747-8 model, also called the Intercontinental, which is scheduled to enter commercial service in 2010. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7647662.html Boeing reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth Boeing engineer Jack Butcher flies a flight simulator as computer images of downtown Seattle appear on the flight deck screens. May 23, 2007 at 8:48 2007 at 8:48 AM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Boeing Co. reaffirmed its outlook Wednesday for strong growth in 2007 and 2008, telling investors it remains on pace for double-digit increases in earnings and revenue as it rides momentum linked to the new 787 jet. The upbeat assessment came at the aerospace company's annual investor conference in Chicago at a time when Boeing is fast closing in on Airbus for the title of world's leading commercial airplane maker. Chief Executive Jim McNerney dismissed the notion of a tapering-off in orders for commercial jets amid sizzling sales of the 787, which has racked up 567 customer orders from at least 44 different customers even before the first model rolls off the assembly line. "The U.S. and European legacy carriers have yet to order in any substantial quantities," he said in a response to an analyst's question at the meeting, which was webcast. "So we don't see an immediate end to the cycle." Boeing held to forecasts for earnings of between $4.55 and $4.75 per share in 2007 on revenue between $64.5 billion and $65 billion. In 2008, profits are expected to grow to $5.55-$5.75 per share on revenue of $71 billion to $72 billion. "No matter how you look at it, Boeing is off to a strong start in 2007," said Chief Financial Officer James Bell. The Chicago-based company last month reported 27 percent higher first-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street projections. McNerney said then that it is on pace to overtake Airbus in airplane deliveries by early next year, helped by the momentum generated by the 787. The new plane is scheduled to enter commercial service next May. It's the first commercial jet that will be made mostly of light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites instead of aluminum and is said to be 20 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable jets. Boeing said it is on track to roll out the first plane by July 8, which will be used for test flights slated to begin around late August. Shares in the company edged down 23 cents to $96.25 in morning trading, two days after reaching their latest all-time high of $97.74. sitter accused of raping baby boy The Schrammie: Michael Schreck, time to fess up Two dead in Eatonville crash Police: 'Missing' naval officer not missing Microsoft shows off 'coffee table of the future' Ken Schram: I'm sorry School evacuated after plumber finds body in air conditioning duct Miss USA booed at Miss Universe pageant Rosie O'Donnell says she may never speak to Elisabeth Hasselbeck again 'King of spam' arrested in Seattle
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7744602.html ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture May 30, 2007 at 7:32 AM PDT May 30, 2007 at 2:40 PM PDT NEW YORK (AP) - A Boeing Co. subsidiary that may have provided secret CIA flight services was sued Wednesday by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of three terrorism suspects who claim they were tortured by the U.S. government. The lawsuit charges that flight services provided by Jeppesen Dataplan Inc. enabled the clandestine transportation of the suspects to secret overseas locations, where they were tortured and subjected to other "forms of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment." The ACLU said the company "either knew or reasonably should have known" that they were facilitating the torture of terrorism suspects by providing flight services for the CIA. Companies "are not allowed to have their heads in the sand, and take money from the CIA to fly people, hooded and shackled, to foreign countries to be tortured," ACLU attorney Ben Wizner said. Boeing itself is not named in the lawsuit and would not confirm the reports of a Jeppesen-CIA link, said spokesman Tim Neale, adding that customers have a confidentiality clause. Jeppesen Dataplan says it provides services such as flight plans, fuel and airport data to airlines, private pilots and various companies, but it doesn't ask its customers for details of their business. "We don't know the purpose of the trip for which we do a flight plan," said Mike Pound, a spokesman for the Englewood, Colo.-based Jeppesen. "We don't need to know specific details. It's the customer's business, and we do the business that we are contracted for," he said. "It's not our practice to ever inquire about the purpose of a trip." Jeppesen had no immediate comment on specifics of the lawsuit. The lawsuit was filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Northern California, but announced in New York City. The three detainees have claimed through their family and lawyers that they have been tortured and abused against universally accepted legal standards. One claimed to have been routinely tortured under interrogation about al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden. Their attorneys appealed to the ACLU for assistance. The cases involve the alleged mistreatment of Binyam Mohamed, an Ethiopian citizen, in July 2002 and January 2004; Elkassim Britel, an Italian citizen, in May 2002; and Ahmed Agiza, an Egyptian citizen, in December 2001, ACLU officials said at a Manhattan news conference. Mohamed is currently being held in GuantDanamo Bay, Cuba; Britel in Morocco and Agiza in Egypt, the ACLU said. The ACLU says the suspects were apprehended under the U.S. government's "extraordinary rendition program." Extraordinary rendition is the clandestine capture and transfer of suspects to be detained and interrogated in countries where the protection of U.S. laws do not apply, according to Wizner. "American corporations should not be profiting from a CIA rendition program that is unlawful and contrary to core American values," said Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the ACLU. "Corporations that choose to participate in such activity can and should be held legally accountable." Neither the CIA nor the U.S. government is named in the lawsuit. Wizner said the executive branch has evoked a state secrets defense in similar lawsuits. The Bush administration has insisted it receives guarantees from countries receiving terror suspects that prisoners will not be tortured. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7725322.html Russia's top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s A computer image of the new Boeing 787 is shown on a heads-up display in the 787 Engineering Flight Deck Simulator. May 29, 2007 at 7:13 AM PDT May 29, 2007 at 7:13 AM PDT MOSCOW (AP) - Russia's biggest domestic air carrier, S7, signed a deal with Boeing Co. to expand its fleet with 15 new 787 aircraft, the company said Tuesday. Under the terms of the deal, S7 would receive the first seven planes in 2014 under an operating lease agreement, the company said in a statement. S7 also would have the right to acquire 10 more aircraft, it said. The deal was valued at $2.4 billion, based on the catalog price for 25 787s. The contract "will allow us not only to retain the position of Russia's leading carrier but expand the gap between our competitors," said Valdislav Filyov, general Director of OAO Sibir, which controls S7. The order is welcome news for Boeing in Russia. The U.S. plane manufacturer's efforts to reach a major deal with Aeroflot have been stymied by what some analysts say is the chill in relations between Washington and Moscow. S7, formerly Sibir, is Russia's second-largest airline after Aeroflot though it leads the flagship carrier in terms of domestic passenger volume. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7621411.html First 787 taking shape on new production line 787 taking shape on new production line May 21, 2007 at 8:06 PM PDT May 21, 2007 at 8:15 PM PDT EVERETT - This is a milestone day for Boeing. The final assembly is under way on the first 787 Dreamliner. It won't roll out the hangar doors for another seven weeks. But we got a sneak peek Monday as Boeing held its 787 factory grand opening. The 787 is Boeing's first new plane in more than a decade. And everything about it, from the parts to how they're assembled, is new. "It's overwhelming at times," says Don Bryant, a Boeing engineer. "You scratch it off and go to the next step. We're good at that. Boeing's been around a long time and it's gonna be around a long time to come." That optimism comes with the unprecedented demand brought on by the 787. Boeing has raked in 568 orders, taking delivery into 2013. The midsize, long haul jet will be quieter and more fuel efficient, burning 20 percent less fuel than comparable planes. "I don't think anyone would've thought that fuel prices, including jet fuel prices would be as high as they are today," says Boeing's Vice President of 787 Manufacturing, Steve Westby. "So it's been very attractive to our airline customers with the fuel efficiency this airplane offers." Boeing is building the jet's parts around the world in six countries and then flying the massive pieces here in the Dreamlifter -- a 747 modified to do the job. Everett workers basically snap the parts together. It's a whole new process for Boeing but one the company says is leaner, innovative and more environmentally friendly. The final assembly process will eventually take just three days. While Boeing takes criticism for outsourcing work, locals can celebrate the fact that the Dreamliner's final touches happen in the same plant where the idea for the plane was born. "This has been an incredible journey," says Bryant. "It has been an experience of a lifetime. It's all coming together here." The first 787 will roll out on July 8th, or 7-8-07. Boeing will build and test fly six of the planes. Then the seventh will be the first one to actually go to a customer, All Nippon Airways in Japan. That plane rolls out in one year. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing rival to Boeing 787 to enter service in 2013 Airbus, the ailing European planemaker, will be producing its delayed A350 XWB plane at a rate of 13 per month by 2016, making it the fastest made wide-bodied plane at Airbus, Chief Engineer Gordon McConnell said Monday. Workers at plant that makes Boeing floor panels on strike Workers at a plant that supplies floor panels for Boeing Co. aircraft struck Friday in a dispute over wages and benefits. Ryanair buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion All of the new single-aisle Boeing Co. aircraft will be fitted with technology that reduces fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. They will be delivered between September 2009 and March 2010. ACLU: Boeing subsidiary enabled CIA torture Russia's top domestic airline orders Boeing 787s Boeing scores in Airbus' backyard Boeing reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth Now THIS is flying First 787 taking shape on new production line Boeing Business Jets gets 7 new orders Mammoth cargo plane key to global supply chain for 787 Making the 787: Not your old, loud production line New stamp will commemorate Air Force One Boeing, Machinists reach tentative pact Boeing announces order for 61 jets Wings, fuselage midsection delivered for first Boeing 787 Boeing 787 taking shape as wings arrive in Everett Dreamlifter arrives in Everett with 787 parts Boeing sends investigators to Cameroon crash Panama's Copa Airlines orders 737s Boeing CEO: Company will overtake Airbus Boeing announces 4 more orders Boeing earnings climb 27 percent in first quarter Virgin orders 787s, teams with Boeing on biofuel Japanese factories working to meet 787 demand Air Canada orders 23 Boeing 787s Machinists authorize strike at St. Louis Boeing plants Leasing company orders 20 Boeing planes arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7764002.html Ryanair buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion buys 27 new Boeing planes worth $1.9 billion Boeing 737 airplanes, with and without wings, sit on the assembly line at the Boeing Co.'s Renton, Wash. assembly plant. May 31, 2007 at 7:17 AM PDT May 31, 2007 at 7:17 AM PDT DUBLIN, Ireland (AP) - Ryanair Holdings PLC, Europe's largest discount airline, said Thursday that it ordered 27 Boeing 737-800s valued at $1.9 billion. All of the new single-aisle Boeing Co. aircraft will be fitted with technology that reduces fuel burn and carbon dioxide emissions. They will be delivered between September 2009 and March 2010. The list price does not necessarily indicate the amount Ryanair will pay, as airlines often negotiate discounts on large orders. The order brings Ryanair's total firm orders for Boeing 737-800s to 308 and total fleet size - including planned disposals - to 262 by 2012. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7673507.html Boeing scores in Airbus' backyard scores in Airbus' backyard May 24, 2007 at 2:39 PM PDT May 24, 2007 at 2:48 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Air France-KLM, the world's largest airline by revenue, said Thursday it plans to upgrade its fleet and order 18 new planes from Boeing Co., worth about $4.4 billion at list prices. Air France said in a statement it plans to replace 13 747-400 passenger and five 747-400 cargo aircraft with extended-range 777-300ERs and 777 freighters. The airline said higher fuel costs and environmental concerns prompted the decision to upgrade. Air France also announced it will buy 12 and lease 18 A320/321 planes from Boeing's French rival, Airbus. And it said it ordered two additional Airbus A380s, bringing its total orders for the much-delayed superjumbo to 12. The decisions to order new aircraft were announced during a news conference to discuss the company's annual financial results. "The Boeing Co. is pleased that the Air France-KLM Group has again selected the 777-300ER for its fleet requirements. Boeing looks forward to finalizing the order," said Jim Condelles, a Boeing spokesman. The widebody, twin-engine 777-300ER carries 365 passengers up to 7,420 nautical miles (13,742 kilometers). Air France took delivery of the first 737-300ER to enter passenger service in April 2004, leasing it from International Lease Finance Corp. Boeing's stock hit a 52-week high Thursday at $98.84, but retreated by the close of trading. Shares gained $1.85, just under 2 percent, to end the day at $97.42. U.S.-traded shares of Air France-KLM added 48 cents to close at $49.85. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7827277.html Airbus rival to Boeing 787 to enter service in 2013 rival to Boeing 787 to enter service in 2013 Jun 4, 2007 at 11:36 AM PDT Jun 4, 2007 at 11:36 AM PDT TOULOUSE, France (AP) - Airbus, the ailing European planemaker, will be producing its delayed A350 XWB plane at a rate of 13 per month by 2016, making it the fastest made wide-bodied plane at Airbus, Chief Engineer Gordon McConnell said Monday. The revamped plane enters into service in 2013 - five years after U.S. rival Boeing's 787 Dreamliner, expected to be a top competitor along with the 777. Delivery would be at 13 per month in 2017. Airbus has been losing customers for mid-sized planes to Boeing and was forced last year to launch a costly redesign of the planned A350. Boeing has not disclosed monthly production rates it is projecting for the 787, but has said it would deliver 112 planes for the first two years. Alan Pardoe, Airbus director of product marketing, said that despite the delay, Airbus hoped to grab a "good 50 percent" of the market for wide-bodied planes up to 400 seats, and estimated that would amount to 5,300 planes over 20 years. The two officials spoke with a small group of reporters. Airbus claims its A350 XWD, made from carbon fiber wings and composites, will be lighter per seat and more economical than existing aircraft. McConnell, the chief engineer, strongly denied media reports that carriers including Qatar Airways, Singapore Airlines Ltd., Emirates and the International Lease Finance Corp. were pressing Airbus for changes to the A350's fuselage design. Airbus' decision to use four long panels "allows us to optimize our design of the fuselage," he said. "It gives us a better trade-off of weight versus cost." Airbus got a much-needed boost last week from Qatar Airways, which ordered an extra 20 A350 XWD. The European planemaker has 155 pledges on its books for the new model, of which 13 are firm commitments. Including orders for the old model, which Airbus is having to renegotiate with customers, there are 268 pledges. That's still far behind the 584 orders Boeing has for its equivalent 787 Dreamliner, due to enter commercial service next May. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7799841.html Workers at plant that makes Boeing floor panels on strike at plant that makes Boeing floor panels on strike Jun 1, 2007 at 7:31 PM PDT Jun 1, 2007 at 8:26 PM PDT AIRWAY HEIGHTS, Wash. (AP) - Workers at a plant that supplies floor panels for Boeing Co. aircraft struck Friday in a dispute over wages and benefits. Members of the 371-person unit of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers picketed outside the Triumph Composite Systems Inc. plant, where floor panels are made for Boeing commercial planes and some Airbus planes. The union voted overwhelmingly late Thursday to reject the company's final offer, officials said. A contract ended at midnight Thursday and picket lines went up at 6 a.m. "Although it was a good offer, it did not meet our members' expectations," union coordinator Mark Blondin said in a news release. "Members believe Triumph can do better." The company released a statement calling the three-year contract offer generous. "Triumph is disappointed that its work force, already one of the highest paid for manufacturing jobs in Spokane, voted to reject this company offer," the company's release said. "The company is implementing a strike contingency plan, the primary objective of which is to ensure our customers are not adversely affected by the IAM's strike action." The company declined to say whether it planned to use replacement workers. No new negotiations were immediately scheduled. Terms of the contract offer were not released by either side. However, the current starting wage for production mechanics is $11.56 an hour with step increases to $22.01 per hour, according to a job listing Triumph posted this week on a state employment Web page. The Spokane Economic Development Council said the average hourly wage for manufacturing in Spokane is $17.21. Triumph purchased the plant from Boeing in February 2003. It has grown from 243 to 371 union workers. Union officials said the dispute involves wages, pay disparity between veteran workers and new hires, and wages of former Boeing workers who were on layoff when Triumph acquired the plant. Tom Wroblewski, president of Machinists District Lodge 751 in Seattle, said employees took 15 percent pay cuts to keep their jobs when Triumph took over. But the company said in its statement that its offer represents a 17.4 percent increase in wages and benefits over the life of the contract and a 28 percent increase since it bought the plant in 2003. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7612727.html Boeing Business Jets gets 7 new orders Business Jets gets 7 new orders May 21, 2007 at 11:27 AM PDT May 21, 2007 at 11:27 AM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - Boeing Co.'s business jet division said Monday it has won seven new orders so far this year, bringing the unit's total sales to 135. The latest orders are worth about $479 million at list prices, although customers typically pay less because they buy the luxury planes in "green" condition without interior furnishings or exterior paint, so they can customize them to their liking. Six are based on the narrowbody 737-700 and one is modeled off the new midsize, long-haul 787-9. Boeing did not disclose the seven customers, at their request. Private individuals comprise the biggest customer base for Boeing's business jets, followed by heads of state. Corporate and charter operators make up a smaller segment of the market, Boeing said. The company announced this year's order tally at the European Business Aviation Convention and Exhibition in Geneva, Switzerland. Boeing created its Seattle-based business jet unit in 1996 as a joint venture with General Electric Co. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7634731.html Now THIS is flying THIS is flying May 22, 2007 at 2:57 PM PDT May 22, 2007 at 2:57 PM PDT SEATTLE (AP) - There's flying first class... and then there's flying VIP. Boeing has some ideas for the people who like to travel in luxury. At an aviation conference in Geneva, Boeing showed off designs for a VIP 747-8 -- its largest luxury jet with 5,000 square feet of cabin space. Possible features include vaulted ceilings, a spiral staircase and video wall displays. Boeing delivers the plane without the interior furnishing or exterior paint. Customers work with designers to personalize the interiors. Boeing says there are currently 22 of the 747s in VIP uses today. Undisclosed customers have ordered four of the 747-8 model, also called the Intercontinental, which is scheduled to enter commercial service in 2010. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
http://www.komotv.com/news/boeing/7647662.html Boeing reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth reaffirms outlook for double-digit growth Boeing engineer Jack Butcher flies a flight simulator as computer images of downtown Seattle appear on the flight deck screens. May 23, 2007 at 8:48 AM PDT May 23, 2007 at 8:48 AM PDT CHICAGO (AP) - Boeing Co. reaffirmed its outlook Wednesday for strong growth in 2007 and 2008, telling investors it remains on pace for double-digit increases in earnings and revenue as it rides momentum linked to the new 787 jet. The upbeat assessment came at the aerospace company's annual investor conference in Chicago at a time when Boeing is fast closing in on Airbus for the title of world's leading commercial airplane maker. Chief Executive Jim McNerney dismissed the notion of a tapering-off in orders for commercial jets amid sizzling sales of the 787, which has racked up 567 customer orders from at least 44 different customers even before the first model rolls off the assembly line. "The U.S. and European legacy carriers have yet to order in any substantial quantities," he said in a response to an analyst's question at the meeting, which was webcast. "So we don't see an immediate end to the cycle." Boeing held to forecasts for earnings of between $4.55 and $4.75 per share in 2007 on revenue between $64.5 billion and $65 billion. In 2008, profits are expected to grow to $5.55-$5.75 per share on revenue of $71 billion to $72 billion. "No matter how you look at it, Boeing is off to a strong start in 2007," said Chief Financial Officer James Bell. The Chicago-based company last month reported 27 percent higher first-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street projections. McNerney said then that it is on pace to overtake Airbus in airplane deliveries by early next year, helped by the momentum generated by the 787. The new plane is scheduled to enter commercial service next May. It's the first commercial jet that will be made mostly of light, sturdy carbon-fiber composites instead of aluminum and is said to be 20 percent more fuel-efficient than comparable jets. Boeing said it is on track to roll out the first plane by July 8, which will be used for test flights slated to begin around late August. Shares in the company edged down 23 cents to $96.25 in morning trading, two days after reaching their latest all-time high of $97.74. arrested in fatal hit-and-run Cop mistakes daughter as intruder and shoots her Bee blamed for causing fatal bicycle crash Rare colorful lobster caught in Rhode Island Man expected to recover from train crash Colombia fights Bellevue diver over sunken treasure 5 Idahoans killed in Burbank crash Woman suffers serious head injuries in motorcycle crash Huge tree crashes down on emergency crew amid rescue Supreme Court reinstates death sentence in King County murder
