http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/rugby_union/english/6707351.stm BBC SPORT | Rugby Union | English | Depleted England add Ojo to squad GMT 10:45 England add Ojo to squad Ojo in action for the England Saxons against the USA South Africa v England Uncapped London Irish wing Topsy Ojo has been called up to the England squad for Saturday's second Test against South Africa in Pretoria. Ojo was added after the already weakened squad was further depleted by injuries and a stomach virus. "He was on stand-by for the England Saxons and will provide emergency back three cover," said coach Brian Ashton. "I didn't want to further disrupt the Saxons for the Churchill Cup final by taking another of their players." Who would be in your England XV? Bath full-back Nick Abendanon, who was man of the match for the Saxons in their win over Scotland A last weekend, has already been called up to the full squad. Your thoughts on England's selection problems Andy Farrell, James Simpson-Daniel and Mike Brown have all been ruled out of selection because of the virus, Andy Hazell is out with a knee injury and captain Jason Robinson is also a doubt with fluid on the knee. England were also deprived of David Strettle and Iain Balshaw, who were forced to fly home early because of the virus and a shin injury respectively. As a result of all the selection problems, Ashton will delay naming his starting team until Friday. England lose four for second Test 30 SA make tweaks for England Test 30 Strettle to return from SA tour 29 England delay team announcement 28 England Saxons 18-3 Scotland A 28 Union White expects harder England test 28 Injured Balshaw ruled out of tour 27 Robinson bemoans England mistakes 26 South Africa 58-10 England 26 England Saxons 51-3 USA 18 Union Rugby union on the BBC BBC Where I Live - England Your say on English rugby union - 606 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/somerset/6707869.stm | Open verdict in punch death case GMT 13:38 verdict in punch death case Mr Toogood suffered fatal brain injuries A coroner has apologised to the family of a man who died after a fight with youths as he put out his bins. Alan Toogood, 50, suffered fatal brain injuries from a punch to his neck outside his Yeovil flat last September. An open verdict was recorded as there was insufficient evidence to find any other verdict, the inquest at Wells Coroners' Court was told. Coroner Tony Williams apologised to Mr Toogood's family, saying he was unable to come up with another verdict. Mr Toogood's eldest daughter, Yvonne Merrett, said the family was "disappointed". "We are still left with questions and it is upsetting, she said. "It is fair to say we are disappointed with the verdict but accept the coroner had no other option." The inquest heard Mr Toogood had confronted a group of teenagers because he was fed up with loud music outside his home. A 15-year-old youth, a boy and a girl, both 16, and an 18-year-old man were originally arrested on suspicion of murder. The Crown Prosecution Service did not press charges because of a lack of evidence. A 15-year-old boy, who admitted throwing a punch, refused to answer any questions at the inquest. But in a police statement read at the hearing, he admitted hitting Mr Toogood because he was being held by the throat. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction to the verdict Carnival, going out, views Father died after fatal row punch 30 Inquest told of man's noise anger 29 Death case dropped by prosecutors 22 Nov 06 | Somerset Avon and Somerset Police verdict in punch death case Beach dog walking ban is reviewed Pole trekker survives ice plunge
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6701819.stm | Pope meets parents of Madeleine 30 May 2007, 17:17 GMT 18:17 meets parents of Madeleine The Pope blessed a photograph of Madeleine The parents of Madeleine McCann have met Pope Benedict in Rome and had a photograph of the abducted four-year-old blessed by him. Kate and Gerry McCann, from Rothley in Leicestershire, spoke briefly to the Pope as he met selected worshippers after his weekly audience. Afterwards, Mr McCann said the meeting had been a positive experience for him and his wife. Madeleine disappeared during a family holiday in Portugal on 3 May. Her parents, who are devout Catholics, flew to Rome from the Algarve resort of Praia da Luz in tycoon Sir Philip Green's private jet. The general audience given by Pope Benedict XVI takes place every Wednesday and is held in St Peter's Square during the summer months. About 25,000 people were at the audience attended by the McCanns. Mrs McCann showed the Pope a photograph of Madeleine when she met him, which he blessed. He put his hand on the arms of both parents during the emotional meeting. In ordinary circumstances it would be a highlight for any Catholic to meet the Pope At a later press conference, Mr McCann said: "Today, meeting the Pontiff was an experience that has caused very mixed emotions for us. "In ordinary circumstances it would be a highlight for any Catholic to meet the Pope. Of course it's saddened by the marked realisation that our daughter is still missing. "We know people everywhere are praying for our daughter and that helps sustain our belief that we can get her back safely." Mr McCann said the goodness that had been generated by "one evil act" had restored his faith. The McCanns reiterated their appeal for information on Madeleine and urged people to visit their website, www.findmadeleine.com. The McCanns, both 38, are staying at the residency of the British ambassador to the Holy See, Francis Campbell. They have left their two-year-old twins in the Algarve with Mr McCann's sister, Trish Cameron, and her husband Sandy, deciding they were too young to take on the trip to Italy. The couple are also due to visit Spain, the Netherlands, Morocco and Germany to raise awareness of their daughter's disappearance. This week the family released the last video clips taken of their daughter before her abduction. Meanwhile, Portuguese police have received hundreds of calls after they released a description of a man seen near the McCanns' holiday flat. But the family said on Tuesday that police had got a crucial fact wrong in the description of the man. The height of the man given on the Portuguese press release was 170cm (5ft 7in) but it mistakenly appeared as 5ft 10in in the English version. meets parents of Madeleine Giant Madeleine poster unveiled Suspect details 'too vague' Sighting significant say family 'No-one feels more guilt' What next for the Portuguese police inquiry? Media scrum at house search Q&A: Suspect and Portuguese law How effective are rewards? Q&A: Portuguese police system Child Exploitation & Online Protection Centre in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/staffordshire/6706993.stm | Regeneration 'creates 1,800 jobs' GMT 08:12 'creates 1,800 jobs' More than 1,800 jobs have been created in north Staffordshire in the past five years, according to a study. The North Staffordshire Regeneration Zone (NSRZ) said more than £80 million of government money had been invested in the area in that time. Major building schemes such as office space and health and sports facilities had been partly responsible. Regeneration company Advantage West Midlands said the report showed the area was "on the up". North Staffordshire Regeneration Zone said it had invested £27m of public money in the area which had encouraged tens of millions of pounds of investment from the private sector and other public sector bodies. Mervyn Smith, a Stoke-on-Trent councillor and member of the NSRZ, said: "Regeneration is not just about buildings, more importantly it is about people. "This massive spend, encompassing so many projects, has focused on exactly that: improving and enhancing quality of life of people where it matters most, at the heart of their communities." Stoke and Staffordshire Sport, travel and more for Stoke and Staffordshire widening report welcomed Ambulance service merger approved Investment 'creates 1,800 jobs'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6703331.stm | Ex football club chairman jailed 30 May 2007, 17:47 GMT 18:47 football club chairman jailed John Russell (l) and Mike Lewis pleaded guilty The ex-chairman of Exeter City Football Club has been jailed for 21 months for fraudulent trading. John Russell, 51, from West Yorkshire, and his deputy Michael Lewis, 65, from Swansea, both pleaded guilty to fraud. Before being appointed chairman in 2002, Russell falsely claimed he had assets which could be used as personal guarantees for the club's debts. Lewis was sentenced at Bristol Crown Court to 200 hours of community work for playing a lesser part in the fraud. Russell, of Cannon Hall Close, Brighouse also pleaded guilty to obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception. A former Scarborough FC chairman, Russell had claimed to own a hotel, property and businesses. Paul Dunkels, prosecuting, said: "He was broke. He had no assets, no money and no bank account and certainly had no money to invest in Exeter City." Russell and Lewis, from Loughor Road, Gorseinon, continued trading and paid themselves generous consultancy fees despite knowing the club was insolvent and unable to repay loans. The court heard how they moved money from accounts to buy themselves time, cheques were bounced and money earmarked for the club's academy was illegally transferred. They left the club £4.5m in debt, but the men blamed the previous regime for the club's position. In sentencing Russell, judge David Ticehurst told him he had betrayed the club's fans and treated it as his own personal domain. During the pair's time in charge, singer Michael Jackson was made an honorary director of the club, and visited the club's St James Park with Uri Geller, who was appointed vice chairman. They said they believed they were caught after Uri Geller reported them to the police. The supporters' trust later took over the club and agreed to pay back 7p in the pound to creditors. leisure, environment Exeter FC trial moved from city 22 Dec 05 | Devon Ex-club chiefs appear in court 18 Feb 05 | Devon Club directors face fraud charges 11 Feb 05 | Devon Michael Jackson's thriller of a Devon visit Devon and Cornwall Police in profits for water company MP fined for disabled parking Waiting over for would-be buyers
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/south_yorkshire/6707503.stm Yorkshire | Police find cabbie killers' car GMT 10:58 find cabbie killers' car Mr Khan's family said he had loved being a taxi driver Detectives investigating the murder of a Sheffield taxi driver say they have found the car used by his killers. Father-of-five Younis Khan, 53, was shot as he drove along Scott Road, Pitsmoor, Sheffield, on 14 March. Police said a maroon-coloured Ford Escort, which is about 10 years old, had been found burnt out on the Langsett Estate in Upperthorpe. Detectives have appealed for anyone who saw the car in Sheffield on 14 March to come forward. A South Yorkshire Police spokeswoman said the force was not releasing any more details about the vehicle "for legal reasons". Det Supt Martyn Bates, who is leading the investigation, said the Ford Escort was in the Scott Road area for several hours before the shooting. He said: "The investigation is continuing to make significant progress and we now have quite a clear picture of the events leading to Mr Khan's murder. "I am increasingly optimistic that the investigation will reach a successful conclusion." travel, leisure Yorkshire News on the move Get BBC South Yorkshire headlines on your mobile phone Hunt continues for cabbie killers 14 Yorkshire Killed cab driver 'loved his job' 17 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Patrols stepped up after murder 15 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Taxi driver shooting 'motiveless' 14 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Taxi driver dies in city shooting 14 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Taxi CCTV camera trial 'success' 01 Feb 07 | South Yorkshire City cabbies in CCTV camera trial 22 Dec 06 | South Yorkshire SOUTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Police find cabbie killers' car Businessman challenges top boxer Plea over mystery puddle of blood
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/6707889.stm critical in sub-station shock GMT 13:26 critical in sub-station shock A man is in a critical condition after receiving a electric shock at a power sub-station in County Durham. Police said it was believed the 41-year-old touched a live pylon at the Addison Road station near Bishop Auckland at midday on Wednesday. He suffered burns to his body and is critical but stable in hospital. A police spokesman said an investigation was under way into how the man, who was not an electricity worker, had entered the secure site. He said: "The man is not an employee and it has not been established at this stage what he was doing inside the boundaries of the power station. "It is thought he may have received the shock from being in contact with an electricity pylon." The man was taken to Bishop Auckland General Hospital before being transferred to Newcastle Royal Victoria Infirmary. The sub-station is owned by utility firm NEDL. A 40-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of theft in connection with the incident. leisure, webcams and much Sport, travel, webcams jailed over gang shootings Boy's custody death was suicide MP fined over disabled parking
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6706885.stm | Stop and search powers 'damaging' GMT 09:20 and search powers 'damaging' Suspects who do not co-operate could face a £5,000 fine Stop and search powers will still be used in London despite a report finding they harm community relations. The Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) review said on balance the powers under the Terrorism Act 2000 are "necessary". More details about how they are being employed, and revised guidelines for Met officers, will be released at a Metropolitan Police Authority meeting. New powers to allow police to stop and question suspects are currently being considered by the government. These powers would be similar to those already used in Northern Ireland and anyone refusing to give their name or explain what they were doing could be fined up to £5,000. STOP AND SEARCH POWERS 22,672 stops were conducted by the Met between September 2005-6 As a result, 27 arrests were made for terrorism-related offences 95% of people stopped are men An Asian person is 30% more likely to be stopped than a white person None of the 19 complaints made since 2000 have been upheld The results of a review into how the police use counter-terrorism stop and search measures in London are to be presented to the Metropolitan Police Authority on Thursday. Members will hear how officers must be able to stop people without reasonable suspicion, in some circumstances. Len Duvall, chair of the MPA, said protecting the capital needed the support of residents as well as the government. He said there was clear evidence that section 44 powers were undermining community trust and reducing understanding of police counter-terrorism work. "While there is profound support across all communities for the police's counter-terrorist effort, there is also a real fragility to public trust in the authorities," he said. "If the Metropolitan Police is to tackle terrorism effectively, it must harness this community support and recognise this fragility." features More stop and quiz terror powers 27 and search powers 'damaging' Rings musical halted by accident
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/kent/6706901.stm | Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge GMT 08:13 survives 100ft cliff plunge A woman has survived a 100 ft cliff plunge in Kent, ending up conscious and with just broken bones. She then spent three hours trying to get a mobile phone signal to call 999, a coastguard spokesman said. The woman was found more than 100ft (30m) down, from sloping cliffs near Reculver Towers, Herne Bay. The unnamed woman, who was airlifted to hospital by RAF helicopter, early on Thursday, did not suffer life-threatening injuries. The cliff rescue operation was co-ordinated by Thames Coastguard involving teams from Herne Bay and Margate. sport, chat Maritime and Coastguard Agency for action after fatal crash Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge One dead and two injured in crash
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/athletics/6707395.stm BBC SPORT | Athletics | Radcliffe contract still unsigned GMT 11:18 contract still unsigned Radcliffe is one of Britain's most successful athletes Paula Radcliffe has still not signed a central contract with UK Athletics (UKA), even though the deadline expired almost a year ago. Radcliffe has not put pen to paper on the deal, meaning she is not eligible for lottery funding or allowed to run in the Norwich Union Grand Prix season. The disagreement relates to Radcliffe's own sponsorship deals, and her wish to choose her own race programme. Rising star Emily Pidgeon, 17, is also still to sign the contract. The complicated deal has several controversial clauses, including a ban on public criticism of UKA officials and athletes. Speaking last year, Pidgeon's father Stephen complained that the contract was weighted in favour of UKA. "If you read the terms of this contract there are parts of it that, as a businessman, I would never sign," he told BBC Gloucestershire. "If somebody brought a contract like this to me I would throw it out because they were being unreasonable." UK Athletics said it is confident of reaching agreement with Radcliffe as negotiations continued. We are not overly fazed by it and I don't expect Paula is either UKA chairman Ed Warner "Paula has a complex range of contractual obligations to a number of sponsors," said UKA chairman Ed Warner. "The standard UKA contract imposes its own contractual obligations and reconciling those is a very important issue for Paula and her team, which I completely respect. "We don't have any other athletes with that level of achievement. And, by extension, we don't have any other athletes with that range of financial commitments that go with her genuinely super-world-class status. "It is always the risk when individual athletes in any sport become mini-business empires. We live in a commercial world and that is the situation here. "We are not overly fazed by it and I don't expect Paula is either." The deadline to sign the contract officially expired on 28 June last year. Meanwhile, it is still unclear when Radcliffe will return to competitive action after she suffered a stress fracture to her spine while giving birth to her daughter Isla in January. "She is a genuine world class athlete. She will race when it is appropriate to do so for her long-term goals - I will certainly not be rushing her back into a GB vest," said UKA performance director Dave Collins. "She will have targets for Beijing and beyond and I will facilitate her in that. "She has committed to performing in Beijing and I am very excited that she has committed to performing in 2012 and it is up to us to give her the framework to do that." Central contracts for GB athletes 05 Apr 06 | Athletics Back injury frustrates Radcliffe 01 Radcliffe races back after baby 13 Feb 07 | Athletics Baby girl for athlete Radcliffe 17 Jan 07 | Athletics GB set finals target for Worlds 30 Athletics boss tempers 2012 hopes 06 Feb 07 | Athletics Athletics on the BBC How to get involved in athletics PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/oxfordshire/6707543.stm | Cash problems close speedway club GMT 10:56 problems close speedway club Attendances were too poor for the club to break even A long-standing speedway club has been closed down after low attendances left its owner struggling financially. Cowley-based Oxford Speedway has been pulled from the Elite and Conference leagues with "immediate effect" by its owner Colin Horton. Mr Horton said he had lost thousands of pounds since buying the club last year and could no longer bankroll it. The riders of both the Cheetahs and Lions teams are said to have already been looking for new clubs. If I could see even the smallest glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel I would have carried on Mr Horton said it was with "dismay" that he made the decision. But he added that he did not have an endless supply of money to sink into the club, which has been racing since 1939. "I have thought long and hard about this and it really is the toughest thing I have ever had to do," he said. "If I could see even the smallest glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel I would have carried on, but I can't. "The club is losing several thousand pounds each and every week and that cannot continue." The club has been attracting crowds of about 400 to 500 for its home meetings - a figure that would need to double for it to break even. games and chat on the BBC's Oxfordshire website employee shot in training Speedway club closed down More patrols tackle alcohol crime
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/essex/6707641.stm | Man charged over fatal car crash GMT 11:23 charged over fatal car crash A teenager has been charged with causing death by dangerous driving following a collision in Essex in which a man died. Charlie Morris, 26, from Lewisham, south London, was a passenger in a Vauxhall Corsa that crashed on the A13 in Hadleigh on 2 October 2006. The car was found at the Vick House Corner roundabout. David Bissmire, 19, also from Lewisham, is due to appear before Southend Magistrates' Court. travel, leisure gun victim making progress Families trial autism alert card Bids to sign up singing waitress
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/6706871.stm fund for explosion victims GMT 07:56 fund for explosion victims An inquest into Mr Herd's death was opened on Wednesday An appeal fund has been set up for the victims of an explosion which ripped through the centre of a County Durham market town on Saturday. The money will be donated to the widow of welder Andy Herd, 33, who died when his van exploded in Wolsingham. It was revealed on Wednesday that his wife Jennifer is expecting the couple's first child. Wolsingham Parish Council said the fund would also be shared between families whose homes were damaged by the blast. Wear Valley District Council has made the first contribution by pledging £1,000. Mr Herd, of Mill Race, Wolsingham, near Bishop Auckland, was killed when his when gas from cylinders in the back of his works van ignited in Wolsingham market square. The explosion happened shortly after Mr Herd stopped at a shop on the town's Front Street. Wreckage was strewn across the centre of the town It is understood the vehicle was moving at the time of the blast. No-one else was hurt in the blast but the explosion caused widespread damage to both residential and commercial properties around the market place. Some of the wreckage from the van landed 200 yards away in a local church and other fragments blew out a shop window. Residents living near the square began returning to their homes on Tuesday. Durham Police and the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) are trying to establish exactly what caused the oxy-acetylene cylinders to ignite. An inquest into Mr Herd's death was opened and adjourned on Wednesday. leisure, webcams and much Sport, travel, webcams Van blast welder was father-to-be 30 Van blast residents assess damage 29 Road re-opens at fatal blast site 28 Van blast zone 'very hazardous' 27 Driver dies in welding van blast 26 County Durham and Darlington Fire and Rescue Wear Valley District Council jailed over gang shootings Boy's custody death was suicide MP fined over disabled parking
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/6707059.stm problem 'underestimated' GMT 15:34 South West hospital trusts have been highlighted by a Conservative MP as struggling to tackle cases of the superbug clostridium difficile. MP for Welwyn and Hatfield Grant Shapps used figures obtained via the Freedom of Information Act. North Bristol and Gloucestershire hospital trusts had the highest number of cases among the trusts which provided figures. Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust said it had been misrepresented. Shaun Ellion, the medical director for Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust, added that the trust was continuing to work to get cases down to zero. All the hospitals involved said they were tackling the problem with better hygiene controls and prescription advice. The MP for Welwyn and Hatfield has not received figures from every health trust but has called on the government "to get to grips with the problem". Mr Shapps said figures were only available for patients aged over 65. "We now know that C-Diff infects eight times as many people as the far better-known MRSA and it actually kills twice as many patients. "I'm calling on the government to recognise and then get to grips with the true scale of the problem," he said. The Health Protection Agency said it could not comment on the figures as it had not yet seen the report. AND AUDIO NEWS Bug victim tells her story County guide, sport Gloucestershire City guide, travel news website Bug outbreak at hospital 'over' 23 jailed over gang shootings Boy's custody death was suicide MP fined over disabled parking
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6707269.stm | Red faces at police station theft GMT 10:31 faces at police station theft The theft at the police station follows a fire at the fire station An MP has predicted "red faces" after a policeman's private car was stolen during the day from Arundel police station in West Sussex. It follows a fire at the town's fire station in 2006. "The ambulance service nearby must be wondering what is going to happen to them," Nick Herbert said. On Thursday, the Arundel and South Downs MP told the BBC he would be asking about security at the station. Police said a man had been arrested and bailed after the theft on 22 May. A Sussex Police spokesman said the officer parked his car when he came on duty on 22 May, but it had gone when he went to go home. It partly gives cause for humour but it does raise some questions "We are looking at whether there was a break-in," he said. He added that the car was recovered later, in the vicinity of Arundel. He was unable to say what hours the officer was working that day. "It partly gives cause for humour but it does raise some questions about the security of these places," Mr Herbert said. He said: "You couldn't make it up. "When the fire station burnt down we were told it wasn't necessary to have fire alarms in fire stations which I thought was bizarre. "Now we have had a police station broken into and a car stolen, and I think the ambulance station nearby must be wondering what is going to happen to them next." He said he would be asking about security at the police station on Thursday and said: "I imagine there are going to be some red faces." travel and Sussex Fire station blaze 'embarrassing' 26 Oct 06 | Southern Counties guilty of raid at jewellers Anger as squatters wreck church Red faces at police station theft
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/cornwall/6707529.stm | Boys bailed over suspicious fires GMT 11:22 bailed over suspicious fires Three boys arrested after a series of arson attacks in Cornwall have been released on bail. Fire crews alerted police after being called to a number of incidents in the early hours of Wednesday in Torpoint. A Citroen car and a Peugeot car were set alight, damaging nearby cars. Emergency services were then called to a car garage fire. Three boys, aged 15, 14 and 12, were questioned by police in Launceston before being released on bail. and features on the BBC's Cornwall website Boys questioned on arson attacks 30 Devon and Cornwall Police Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service in profits for water company Rally against fire service cuts Football stadium plans deferred
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/essex/6707443.stm | 'Hero' gun victim making progress GMT 10:50 gun victim making progress Adam Mapleson's condition is improving, police said Police officers are hoping to speak to a rail commuter who was shot as he tried to stop an armed robbery. Adam Mapleson, 24, was hailed a hero for going to the aid of two security guards being held at gunpoint by the men in Rayleigh, Essex, on 25 May. He was shot in the chest and was in a serious condition in hospital but has made rapid progress, police said. A British Transport Police spokeswoman said officers hope to be able to speak to him for the first time on Thursday. The guard and her male colleague were attacked as they loaded money into a cash machine at Rayleigh station. Mr Mapleson's father, Michael, said his son had been "extremely brave". "We were not surprised to hear that he suffered these injuries as a result of trying to protect another," he said. A £25,000 reward has been offered by security firm Loomis for information leading to the arrest and conviction of those responsible. The robbers are thought to have escaped with a box containing tens of thousands of pounds but security experts say red indelible dye could render them useless. The raiders escaped in a Ford Escort, which was later found abandoned in Eastcheap, less than a mile away. Parts of the raid were caught on CCTV, which detectives hope will help them identify the raiders. A man arrested in connection with the attack has been released on police bail and inquiries are continuing. travel, leisure Father pays tribute to shot son 26 Robbery 'hero' wakes from surgery 26 'Hero' shot in security van raid 25 gun victim making progress Families trial autism alert card Bids to sign up singing waitress
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/suffolk/6707053.stm | Body discovered at nature reserve GMT 09:05 discovered at nature reserve Police searching for a missing woman have found a body at a nature reserve in Suffolk. Nicola Duncan, 34, of Ipswich, was last seen driving a white VW Golf when she visited her parents' home in Cotton, near Stowmarket, Suffolk, on 22 May. A police helicopter found the body of a woman in a car at the Walberswick nature reserve on Wednesday night. Police said the death is not thought to be suspicious and identification is expected to take place on Thursday. entertainment, features discovered at nature reserve Visiting cut after hygiene check Garage fire victim is identified
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/gloucestershire/6707007.stm | Alert over dumped farm chemicals GMT 08:18 over dumped farm chemicals Some of the herbicide containers were full and unopened Farmers are being warned to use reputable waste companies after agricultural chemicals were found dumped in Gloucestershire. Up to 20 containers of industrial strength herbicides were found by a horse rider in woodland at Westonbirt. They were dumped about 40 yards from a stream and some were full and unopened. "If any of them had leaked it could have caused a great deal of damage to local plant and animal life, " said Pc Don Palfrey. "Many companies offer this kind of disposal service, but we believe there are some rogue agents operating who are quite happy to dump chemicals in the countryside once they have taken farmers' money." Martin Wright, National Farmers' Union spokesman for Gloucestershire, said: "Farmers have had to deal with a lot of new waste regulations and there have been a plethora of individuals and companies offering a service to dispose of such chemical containers. "I am very concerned that this sort of incident undermines the enormous efforts that the farming community has made adhering to these new rules." guide, sport Gloucestershire violence crackdown planned Alert over dumped farm chemicals
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/coventry_warwickshire/6707253.stm | Lindsay website gets 7,000 hits GMT 12:15 website gets 7,000 hits Lindsay Ann Hawker's body was found in a bathtub of sand A website set up to help catch the killer of Warwickshire teacher Lindsay Ann Hawker has received 7,000 hits in four days. Www.lindsayannhawker.com was set up by her parents Bill and Julia, from Brandon, near Coventry. It aims to help catch the only suspect, Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28, who has not been seen since Japanese police approached him at his Tokyo apartment. Miss Hawker's body was found there buried in a bathtub of sand in March. Julia Hawker told BBC News: "The Lindsay Ann Hawker website's been set up both in English and Japanese and basically we're making an appeal to anybody, anywhere in the world, who knows any information as to the whereabouts of Tatsuya Ichihashi, the only suspect in the case." She added: "In real terms somebody can't hide away forever and he must be hiding somewhere. "Lindsay was a fantastic girl. Anybody who knew her and a lot of people did know her, would realise just how important it is to try to bring this man to justice." The Hawker family said most messages received via the website, which was set up on Sunday, had been from British ex-pats living in Japan. Tatsuya Ichihashi "can't hide away forever," Julia Hawker said A spokeswoman for the family said they were hopeful of receiving significant leads once the website was launched in Japan with a series of interviews next week. Any information received will be passed on to the Japanese police via their British counterparts. Miss Hawker, 22, had travelled to Japan to teach English as a foreign language. The Leeds University graduate was strangled and asphyxiated, post-mortem tests suggest. She had also suffered severe injuries to her face and arms. UK police are helping their Japanese counterparts in the search for Mr Ichihashi. Earlier this week, her parents revealed that Mr Ichihashi's father had sent them an apology via Japanese police and had called on his son to "atone for his crime". It was labelled a "hollow gesture" by Bill Hawker. Pictures and video footage of Mr Ichihashi have been widely circulated in Japan and photos of him can be seen at police stations across Tokyo. CCTV images of the teacher with Mr Ichihashi, said to have been taken hours before her death, were broadcast on Japanese television in April. Coventry and Warwickshire Sport, travel, leisure, message boards and much more Murder suspect father apologises 27 Plea to Japan media over murder 22 Teacher murder parents' TV plea 16 New images in Japan murder hunt 08 Funeral held for murdered teacher 26 Apr 07 | Coventry/Warwickshire Profile: Lindsay Ann Hawker 28 Mar 07 | UK Lindsay Ann Hawker website website gets 7,000 hits City's sorting office to relocate Ambulance service merger approved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/wiltshire/6707707.stm | Funding bid for 'green corridor' GMT 11:32 bid for 'green corridor' Plans for a £20m "green corridor" between Swindon and Cricklade have been submitted for lottery funding. The Cricklade Country Way is a leisure project which aims to link the two Wiltshire towns via rail, bike and canal. The key elements include reopening the Wiltshire and Berkshire canal, reviving a bygone steam railway and linking up a disjointed national cycle route. There are also plans for a new 48 hectare country park. The scheme's proposers were last year given £250,000 to investigate and draw up the business plan. A team from the Big Lottery Fund is due to visit the area in July before a decision on funding is made in August. sport, travel Canal team bids for £15m funding 13 Dec 05 | Wiltshire Cricklade Country Way Project Swindon and Cricklade Railway violence crackdown planned Church's laptops and safe stolen Funding bid for 'green corridor'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hampshire/6707611.stm | £3m mobile phone raid near M-way GMT 12:29 mobile phone raid near M-way The lorry was forced off the motorway by the thieves Masked men have stolen £3m worth of deluxe mobile phones which sell for £2,500 each after forcing a van off a link road to the M3 in Hampshire. A van from mobile phone firm Vertu was targeted near junction 4a of the M3 in Farnborough on Wednesday. Four men in balaclavas got out of a dark-coloured Subaru and stole the phones before heading northbound. The vehicle was abandoned in Slough, Berks. Two Hertfordshire men, aged 26 and 27, were arrested and taken into custody. Det Sgt Matt Watson, of Hampshire Constabulary, said: "The Subaru's received extensive rear damage during the incident and it is possible that someone may have seen it driving at speed on the M3. "I am appealing for anyone driving between Farnborough and Slough who thinks they may have seen this vehicle to get in touch." travel news Hampshire website Sport, entertainment website mobile phone raid near M-way Rare donkey foals put up for sale Drivers kept to 20mph near homes
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/manchester/6706343.stm | Appeal over vanished businessman GMT 06:26 over vanished businessman Mr Al-Hafeed has not been seen by his family for a year Greater Manchester police have issued a fresh appeal for information about a 38-year-old businessman who disappeared a year ago. Sarwar Al-Hafeed was last seen by wife Dana on the morning of 31 May, 2006, as he was preparing to leave their Didsbury home to go to work. Police fear the Iraqi father-of-three may have been abducted following a dispute with business associates. He had been involved in a dispute over money and title deeds to land in Iraq. In August his wife of 14 years offered a £500,000 reward for information leading to his safe return. On the day that he disappeared, Mr Al-Hafeed was going to Ducie Court, in Manchester city centre, where he worked as executive director of social housing organisation Leadstay. He was wearing a blue denim shirt, black canvas trousers and a khaki jacket when he left the house. Greater Manchester Police said it was extremely out of character for him to go missing and his bank accounts and mobile phone had remained untouched since his disappearance. Detectives are also keen to trace his car - a blue Ford Escort, registration number P87 RWX - which they believe may have been spotted on the day he went missing. We need to give his family some peace of mind to help them to move on with their lives Detective Superintendent Ian Foster It was reported being seen parked next to a white van on Mauldeth Road close to the junction with Parrswood Road. The doors to the van were apparently open and it was parked in such a way that pedestrians may have struggled to get past it. Detective Superintendent Ian Foster said: "It is now a year since Sarwar's family had any contact with him and we are still keen for any information on what happened to him. "Previous appeals have given us some lines of inquiry and we have been following them up, but we are still keen to speak to anyone with any further information on his whereabouts. "We can still not rule out the possibility that Sarwar went away of his own accord, although this would be extremely out of character for him. "I would like to make an appeal to Sarwar, or anyone who knows where he is to come forward with further information. "We need to give his family some peace of mind to help them to move on with their lives." AND AUDIO NEWS Mr Al-Hafeed's wife appeals for more information Information and features on the BBC's Manchester website £500k reward for husband's return 16 Aug 06 | Manchester Abduction fear over businessman 05 Jul 06 | Manchester Salford move gets green light widening report welcomed
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/merseyside/6708255.stm | Woman trapped under bus rescued GMT 13:17 trapped under bus rescued A woman is being treated for serious injuries after she became trapped underneath a bus in Merseyside. Emergency Services were called to the scene on Cook Street in Liverpool city centre at about 1100 BST. Two fire crews and a special rescue team were called to free the 55-year-old from the undercarriage of the single decker bus. She was taken to the Royal Liverpool Hospital with suspected internal injuries and shock. The vehicle was stabilised and air bags were used to lift the weight off the casualty as she was moved. It is not yet known how she became trapped underneath the vehicle. and features on the BBC's Liverpool website over theatre's rent hike Woman trapped under bus rescued Super health centre plans dropped
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6706821.stm | Boy quizzed over serious attack GMT 07:15 quizzed over serious attack A 17-year-old boy is still being questioned over a serious assault on a teenage girl in north London. The victim, also 17, was found with serious head injuries and stab wounds in Wood Green. She is in a critical condition in hospital. It is believed the assault took place behind garages at the rear of Wendover House in Palmerston Road, near the A406 North Circular Road, on Monday. The boy was arrested on Wednesday and taken to a north London police station. Det Ch Insp John Macdonald said: "We are appealing for witnesses to come forward after this terrible attack." features Teenager is critical after attack 29 and search powers 'damaging' Rings musical halted by accident
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/staffordshire/6704201.stm | Ambulance service merger approved GMT 12:31 service merger approved Staffordshire ambulance chiefs have formally agreed to merge with the West Midlands service. The move still needs to be ratified by the strategic health authority and the government, but both are expected to be a formality. Both ambulance services were told by the government last year that they must merge at a time to be agreed locally. The merger, which sparked a 5,000 signature petition in protest, is expected to take place on 1 October. Staffordshire Ambulance Trust did not join the West Midlands service when it was created in 2006 amid fears that it would damage its response times. The West Midlands organisation was formed when the Hereford and Worcester, Coventry and Warwickshire, West Midlands trusts, which also covered Shropshire, merged last year. The government had set both trusts certain targets before the merger could be approved. These included responding to 75% of life-threatening incidents within eight minutes and 95% within 19 minutes. They also had to demonstrate clinical performance for heart attack patients, good sickness absence levels among staff and sound finances. Staffordshire Ambulance Service Chairman Robert Lake said: "I recommended that my board approve the merger timetable for a number of reasons. "It is clear that the two trusts are operating at a similar level of performance and are now the top two performing services in the country in terms of response targets. "Where there are areas of difference the gap is closing rapidly and there are action plans in place to ensure that change continues. "The West Midlands has introduced working practices that have proven successful in Staffordshire and vice versa. It is a two way process." Stoke and Staffordshire Sport, travel and more for Stoke and Staffordshire Ambulance trust mergers discussed 09 Midlands Ambulance trust on track to merge 23 Feb 07 | Staffordshire Ambulance chief quits over merger 16 Mar 06 | Staffordshire Staffordshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust West Midlands Ambulance Service widening report welcomed Ambulance service merger approved Investment 'creates 1,800 jobs'
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lancashire/6707193.stm | Woman quizzed over fatal stabbing GMT 12:45 quizzed over fatal stabbing Andrew Cole died from a single stab wound Detectives are continuing to question a 48-year-old woman on suspicion of the murder of a teenager in Lancashire. Andrew Cole, 19, was found dead at a property in Thornton, near Fleetwood, in the early hours of Tuesday. A post-mortem examination revealed that Mr Cole, who police said was well known in the area, died from a stab wound. The woman was arrested on Wednesday morning and is still being held by Lancashire Police, who are appealing for witnesses. An incident room has been set up at Fleetwood police station and police are trying to piece together the final movements of Mr Cole. Det Supt Steve Brunskill, of Lancashire police, said the murder was an "extremely tragic case" and officers were "keeping an open mind" on the motive. and features on the BBC's Lancashire website Murder inquiry after man stabbed 30 custody death was suicide Missing teenager 'was strangled' Woman quizzed over fatal stabbing
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/berkshire/6707073.stm | Decision due on threatened school GMT 08:49 due on threatened school A campaign to save the school was backed by an educational charity Parents and pupils at a secondary school threatened with possible closure are to find out if it has a future. Councillors are to meet on Thursday to decide whether Ryeish Green School in Wokingham, Berkshire, should close. A campaign to save the Spencers Wood school has been backed by educational charity CfBT Education Trust, which wants to help it win trust status. But Wokingham Borough Council is expected to go ahead with the closure despite heated local protest. If it were to win trust status, the school would be able to control its own admissions, staffing and assets. But education officers have advised councillors that the school is not viable and that pupil numbers have fallen. entertainment website Trust plan for threatened school 29 End of say on school closure plan 04 School granted stay of execution 23 Feb 07 | Berkshire School applies for trust status 18 Dec 06 | Berkshire Last call to stop school closure 15 Dec 06 | Berkshire Parents petition to save school 10 Sep 06 | Berkshire Ryeish Green School Action Group due on threatened school £3m mobile phone raid near M-way Boy, 11, falls through skylight
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6707099.stm Midlands | Trams cancelled after vandalism GMT 08:50 cancelled after vandalism Thousands of commuters in Birmingham and the Black Country have been delayed after vandalism stopped all trams running on the Metro tram service. Overhead cables were brought down by vandals on Wednesday evening in the Soho area of Birmingham. The damage means all trams running between the city and Wednesbury Park have been cancelled. Travel Midlands Metro said the problems were likely to continue throughout the rest of Thursday. British Transport Police are investigating the incident. AND AUDIO NEWS 'Worst vandal attack' on the Midlands Metro Travel, sport, culture and webcams Birmingham and Solihull Culture, leisure, sport Black Country WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Trams cancelled after vandalism Kwik Save confirms store closures Ambulance service merger approved
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/default.stm 4's PM programme GMT 17:01 UK Hitman jailed over gang shootings A gunman is jailed for at least 35 years for killing one man and trying to kill another on the orders of a gang. Men on trial over pub death Reward offered in shooting case Boy's custody death was suicide A 14-year-old boy found dead at a secure unit 150 miles from his home, killed himself a jury rules. MP fined over disabled parking Tory MP Anthony Steen is fined for illegally parking in a disabled bay at a railway station. NEWS WHERE YOU LIVE Three people killed in M40 crash 'Hero' gun victim making progress Lindsay website gets 7,000 hits Appeal for van blast victims Stop and search 'damaging' School power to search for knives ALSO IN THE NEWS Why a sleepy fire crew faces the sack for shunning a chair Singing waitress on the verge of landing record deal A school tells why it introduced airport style search wands Premiership footballers worth £200,000 a week? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Cancer was 'life changing' Coroner in verdict apology Stamp of approval for service Schools get knife search power More Video / Audio News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Headlines from BBC News 24 Bolivia kicks off Fifa protest MORE NEWS FROM AROUND ENGLAND Man guilty of raid at jewellers Red faces at police station theft £3m mobile phone raid Speedway club forced to close Decision due on school threat Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge Seized Elvis goods go to auction Trams cancelled after vandalism Man charged over fatal car crash Body found at nature reserve Regeneration 'creates 1,800 jobs' Police find cabbie killers' car Man critical in sub-station shock Appeal for missing businessman Woman trapped under bus Woman quizzed over stabbing Original plans for the Kop found Open verdict in death punch case Funding bid for 'green corridor' Boys bailed over suspicious fires Alert over dumped chemicals Ex football club chairman jailed Hargreaves signs for United Rugby U: Ojo joins England squad Athletics: Radcliffe deal unsigned Hamster bite puts man in hospital Brummie girls 'not pretty enough' Arrest over rail 'hero' shooting A new breed of eco-warrior fights Stansted expansion plans Your clickable guide to BBC News Interactive English Regions FROM OTHER BBC SITES Find out about your community from bbc.co.uk in England ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC meets parents of Madeleine
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/merseyside/6707595.stm | Original plans for the Kop found GMT 11:39 plans for the Kop found The first ever plans of the famous Kop stand at Liverpool Football club have been published in a new book about the sporting history of the area. Researchers for the book, Played in Liverpool, claim to have spent years scouring Merseyside to uncover undiscovered sporting gems. A key find includes the 1932 foundation stone of the Anfield stadium, which was discovered in a dockside garage. The original 1905 plans for the Kop were also unearthed. The author of the book on Merseyside's sporting past also relays how football's original goal nets were invented by a canny Liverpool engineer. It also highlights the dockside location of Britain's first ever municipal swimming baths. and features on the BBC's Liverpool website Dispute over theatre's rent hike Woman trapped under bus rescued Super health centre plans dropped
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lincolnshire/6707507.stm | Seized Elvis goods go to auction GMT 11:36 Elvis goods go to auction Julie Wall stole the money over a 10-year period Rare Elvis records, Christmas cards and magazines bought by a former council employee who embezzled almost £600,000, are to go on sale in Derbyshire. Julie Wall, 47, from Rippon Drive in Sleaford, Lincs, was jailed in October 2005 for three years for stealing the money from North Kesteven Council. The Crown Prosecution Service said the money raised from the sale would go back to the council as compensation. The sale takes place on 10 June at the Derby Auction Rooms. Wall stole nearly £598,000 over a 10-year period when she was working as a cashier for the local authority, sometimes pocketing up to £10,000 a month. The crime only came to light when an internal audit revealed more than £500,000 was missing from council funds. The Elvis memorabilia was seized under the Proceeds of Crime Act and the CPS has organised the auction. "Our message to all those who commit any crime for financial gain is that when they are caught, they not only run the risk of a prison sentence but they will also be stripped of the full profits of their crimes," said Gary Balch, head of the CPS confiscation unit. "Ms Wall paid approximately £500,000 for the collection but she was prepared to pay anything she was asked to for the items and sometimes the prices were a little silly. "It's unlikely we'll recoup the full amount owed but all items have been valued for auction and we're confident we'll get the best possible price for them." AND AUDIO NEWS £600,000 stolen for Elvis memorabilia. Leisure, environment, sport Sport, travel, leisure Swindler's Elvis goods to be sold 06 Jan 06 | Lincolnshire Cashier jailed over Elvis theft 20 Oct 05 | Lincolnshire North Kesteven District Council dies days after house crash Seized Elvis goods go to auction More seats for coastal visitors
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/somerset/6707869.stm | Open verdict in punch death case 31 May 2007, 12:38 GMT 13:38 UK verdict in punch death case Mr Toogood suffered fatal brain injuries A coroner has apologised to the family of a man who died after a fight with youths as he put out his bins. Alan Toogood, 50, suffered fatal brain injuries from a punch to his neck outside his Yeovil flat last September. An open verdict was recorded as there was insufficient evidence to find any other verdict, the inquest at Wells Coroners' Court was told. Coroner Tony Williams apologised to Mr Toogood's family, saying he was unable to come up with another verdict. Mr Toogood's eldest daughter, Yvonne Merrett, said the family was "disappointed". "We are still left with questions and it is upsetting, she said. "It is fair to say we are disappointed with the verdict but accept the coroner had no other option." The inquest heard Mr Toogood had confronted a group of teenagers because he was fed up with loud music outside his home. A 15-year-old youth, a boy and a girl, both 16, and an 18-year-old man were originally arrested on suspicion of murder. The Crown Prosecution Service did not press charges because of a lack of evidence. A 15-year-old boy, who admitted throwing a punch, refused to answer any questions at the inquest. But in a police statement read at the hearing, he admitted hitting Mr Toogood because he was being held by the throat. AND AUDIO NEWS Reaction to the verdict Carnival, going out, views and more from the BBC website for Somerset Father died after fatal row punch 30 May 07 | Somerset Inquest told of man's noise anger 29 May 07 | Somerset Death case dropped by prosecutors 22 Nov 06 | Somerset Avon and Somerset Police verdict in punch death case Beach dog walking ban is reviewed Pole trekker survives ice plunge Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/uk/6701819.stm | Pope meets parents of Madeleine 30 May 2007, 17:17 GMT 18:17 UK meets parents of Madeleine The Pope blessed a photograph of Madeleine The parents of Madeleine McCann have met Pope Benedict in Rome and had a photograph of the abducted four-year-old blessed by him. Kate and Gerry McCann, from Rothley in Leicestershire, spoke briefly to the Pope as he met selected worshippers after his weekly audience. Afterwards, Mr McCann said the meeting had been a positive experience for him and his wife. Madeleine disappeared during a family holiday in Portugal on 3 May. Her parents, who are devout Catholics, flew to Rome from the Algarve resort of Praia da Luz in tycoon Sir Philip Green's private jet. The general audience given by Pope Benedict XVI takes place every Wednesday and is held in St Peter's Square during the summer months. About 25,000 people were at the audience attended by the McCanns. Mrs McCann showed the Pope a photograph of Madeleine when she met him, which he blessed. He put his hand on the arms of both parents during the emotional meeting. In ordinary circumstances it would be a highlight for any Catholic to meet the Pope At a later press conference, Mr McCann said: "Today, meeting the Pontiff was an experience that has caused very mixed emotions for us. "In ordinary circumstances it would be a highlight for any Catholic to meet the Pope. Of course it's saddened by the marked realisation that our daughter is still missing. "We know people everywhere are praying for our daughter and that helps sustain our belief that we can get her back safely." Mr McCann said the goodness that had been generated by "one evil act" had restored his faith. The McCanns reiterated their appeal for information on Madeleine and urged people to visit their website, www.findmadeleine.com. The McCanns, both 38, are staying at the residency of the British ambassador to the Holy See, Francis Campbell. They have left their two-year-old twins in the Algarve with Mr McCann's sister, Trish Cameron, and her husband Sandy, deciding they were too young to take on the trip to Italy. The couple are also due to visit Spain, the Netherlands, Morocco and Germany to raise awareness of their daughter's disappearance. This week the family released the last video clips taken of their daughter before her abduction. Meanwhile, Portuguese police have received hundreds of calls after they released a description of a man seen near the McCanns' holiday flat. But the family said on Tuesday that police had got a crucial fact wrong in the description of the man. The height of the man given on the Portuguese press release was 170cm (5ft 7in) but it mistakenly appeared as 5ft 10in in the English version. meets parents of Madeleine Giant Madeleine poster unveiled Suspect details 'too vague' Sighting significant say family 'No-one feels more guilt' What next for the Portuguese police inquiry? Media scrum at house search Q&A: Suspect and Portuguese law How effective are rewards? Q&A: Portuguese police system Child Exploitation & Online Protection Centre 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Increase in anti-terror targets Stop-smoking drug approved on NHS Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/staffordshire/6706993.stm | Regeneration 'creates 1,800 jobs' 31 May 2007, 07:12 GMT 08:12 UK 'creates 1,800 jobs' More than 1,800 jobs have been created in north Staffordshire in the past five years, according to a study. The North Staffordshire Regeneration Zone (NSRZ) said more than £80 million of government money had been invested in the area in that time. Major building schemes such as office space and health and sports facilities had been partly responsible. Regeneration company Advantage West Midlands said the report showed the area was "on the up". North Staffordshire Regeneration Zone said it had invested £27m of public money in the area which had encouraged tens of millions of pounds of investment from the private sector and other public sector bodies. Mervyn Smith, a Stoke-on-Trent councillor and member of the NSRZ, said: "Regeneration is not just about buildings, more importantly it is about people. "This massive spend, encompassing so many projects, has focused on exactly that: improving and enhancing quality of life of people where it matters most, at the heart of their communities." Stoke and Staffordshire Sport, travel and more for Stoke and Staffordshire widening report welcomed Ambulance service merger approved Investment 'creates 1,800 jobs' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6703331.stm | Ex football club chairman jailed 30 May 2007, 17:47 GMT 18:47 UK football club chairman jailed John Russell (l) and Mike Lewis pleaded guilty The ex-chairman of Exeter City Football Club has been jailed for 21 months for fraudulent trading. John Russell, 51, from West Yorkshire, and his deputy Michael Lewis, 65, from Swansea, both pleaded guilty to fraud. Before being appointed chairman in 2002, Russell falsely claimed he had assets which could be used as personal guarantees for the club's debts. Lewis was sentenced at Bristol Crown Court to 200 hours of community work for playing a lesser part in the fraud. Russell, of Cannon Hall Close, Brighouse also pleaded guilty to obtaining a pecuniary advantage by deception. A former Scarborough FC chairman, Russell had claimed to own a hotel, property and businesses. Paul Dunkels, prosecuting, said: "He was broke. He had no assets, no money and no bank account and certainly had no money to invest in Exeter City." Russell and Lewis, from Loughor Road, Gorseinon, continued trading and paid themselves generous consultancy fees despite knowing the club was insolvent and unable to repay loans. The court heard how they moved money from accounts to buy themselves time, cheques were bounced and money earmarked for the club's academy was illegally transferred. They left the club £4.5m in debt, but the men blamed the previous regime for the club's position. In sentencing Russell, judge David Ticehurst told him he had betrayed the club's fans and treated it as his own personal domain. During the pair's time in charge, singer Michael Jackson was made an honorary director of the club, and visited the club's St James Park with Uri Geller, who was appointed vice chairman. They said they believed they were caught after Uri Geller reported them to the police. The supporters' trust later took over the club and agreed to pay back 7p in the pound to creditors. leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Exeter FC trial moved from city 22 Dec 05 | Devon Ex-club chiefs appear in court 18 Feb 05 | Devon Club directors face fraud charges 11 Feb 05 | Devon Michael Jackson's thriller of a Devon visit Devon and Cornwall Police in profits for water company MP fined for disabled parking Waiting over for would-be buyers Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/south_yorkshire/6707503.stm Yorkshire | Police find cabbie killers' car 31 May 2007, 09:58 GMT 10:58 UK find cabbie killers' car Mr Khan's family said he had loved being a taxi driver Detectives investigating the murder of a Sheffield taxi driver say they have found the car used by his killers. Father-of-five Younis Khan, 53, was shot as he drove along Scott Road, Pitsmoor, Sheffield, on 14 March. Police said a maroon-coloured Ford Escort, which is about 10 years old, had been found burnt out on the Langsett Estate in Upperthorpe. Detectives have appealed for anyone who saw the car in Sheffield on 14 March to come forward. A South Yorkshire Police spokeswoman said the force was not releasing any more details about the vehicle "for legal reasons". Det Supt Martyn Bates, who is leading the investigation, said the Ford Escort was in the Scott Road area for several hours before the shooting. He said: "The investigation is continuing to make significant progress and we now have quite a clear picture of the events leading to Mr Khan's murder. "I am increasingly optimistic that the investigation will reach a successful conclusion." travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for South Yorkshire News on the move Get BBC South Yorkshire headlines on your mobile phone Hunt continues for cabbie killers 14 May 07 | South Yorkshire Killed cab driver 'loved his job' 17 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Patrols stepped up after murder 15 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Taxi driver shooting 'motiveless' 14 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Taxi driver dies in city shooting 14 Mar 07 | South Yorkshire Taxi CCTV camera trial 'success' 01 Feb 07 | South Yorkshire City cabbies in CCTV camera trial 22 Dec 06 | South Yorkshire SOUTH YORKSHIRE STORIES Police find cabbie killers' car Businessman challenges top boxer Plea over mystery puddle of blood Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6706885.stm | Stop and search powers 'damaging' 31 May 2007, 08:20 GMT 09:20 UK and search powers 'damaging' Suspects who do not co-operate could face a £5,000 fine Stop and search powers will still be used in London despite a report finding they harm community relations. The Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) review said on balance the powers under the Terrorism Act 2000 are "necessary". More details about how they are being employed, and revised guidelines for Met officers, will be released at a Metropolitan Police Authority meeting. New powers to allow police to stop and question suspects are currently being considered by the government. These powers would be similar to those already used in Northern Ireland and anyone refusing to give their name or explain what they were doing could be fined up to £5,000. STOP AND SEARCH POWERS 22,672 stops were conducted by the Met between September 2005-6 As a result, 27 arrests were made for terrorism-related offences 95% of people stopped are men An Asian person is 30% more likely to be stopped than a white person None of the 19 complaints made since 2000 have been upheld The results of a review into how the police use counter-terrorism stop and search measures in London are to be presented to the Metropolitan Police Authority on Thursday. Members will hear how officers must be able to stop people without reasonable suspicion, in some circumstances. Len Duvall, chair of the MPA, said protecting the capital needed the support of residents as well as the government. He said there was clear evidence that section 44 powers were undermining community trust and reducing understanding of police counter-terrorism work. "While there is profound support across all communities for the police's counter-terrorist effort, there is also a real fragility to public trust in the authorities," he said. "If the Metropolitan Police is to tackle terrorism effectively, it must harness this community support and recognise this fragility." features and more from the BBC website for London More stop and quiz terror powers 27 May 07 | Politics and search powers 'damaging' Rings musical halted by accident Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/athletics/6707395.stm BBC SPORT | Athletics | Radcliffe contract still unsigned 31 May 2007, 10:18 GMT 11:18 UK contract still unsigned Radcliffe is one of Britain's most successful athletes Paula Radcliffe has still not signed a central contract with UK Athletics (UKA), even though the deadline expired almost a year ago. Radcliffe has not put pen to paper on the deal, meaning she is not eligible for lottery funding or allowed to run in the Norwich Union Grand Prix season. The disagreement relates to Radcliffe's own sponsorship deals, and her wish to choose her own race programme. Rising star Emily Pidgeon, 17, is also still to sign the contract. The complicated deal has several controversial clauses, including a ban on public criticism of UKA officials and athletes. Speaking last year, Pidgeon's father Stephen complained that the contract was weighted in favour of UKA. "If you read the terms of this contract there are parts of it that, as a businessman, I would never sign," he told BBC Gloucestershire. "If somebody brought a contract like this to me I would throw it out because they were being unreasonable." UK Athletics said it is confident of reaching agreement with Radcliffe as negotiations continued. We are not overly fazed by it and I don't expect Paula is either UKA chairman Ed Warner "Paula has a complex range of contractual obligations to a number of sponsors," said UKA chairman Ed Warner. "The standard UKA contract imposes its own contractual obligations and reconciling those is a very important issue for Paula and her team, which I completely respect. "We don't have any other athletes with that level of achievement. And, by extension, we don't have any other athletes with that range of financial commitments that go with her genuinely super-world-class status. "It is always the risk when individual athletes in any sport become mini-business empires. We live in a commercial world and that is the situation here. "We are not overly fazed by it and I don't expect Paula is either." The deadline to sign the contract officially expired on 28 June last year. Meanwhile, it is still unclear when Radcliffe will return to competitive action after she suffered a stress fracture to her spine while giving birth to her daughter Isla in January. "She is a genuine world class athlete. She will race when it is appropriate to do so for her long-term goals - I will certainly not be rushing her back into a GB vest," said UKA performance director Dave Collins. "She will have targets for Beijing and beyond and I will facilitate her in that. "She has committed to performing in Beijing and I am very excited that she has committed to performing in 2012 and it is up to us to give her the framework to do that." Central contracts for GB athletes 05 Apr 06 | Athletics Back injury frustrates Radcliffe 01 May 07 | Athletics Radcliffe races back after baby 13 Feb 07 | Athletics Baby girl for athlete Radcliffe 17 Jan 07 | Athletics GB set finals target for Worlds 30 May 07 | Athletics Athletics boss tempers 2012 hopes 06 Feb 07 | Athletics Athletics on the BBC How to get involved in athletics PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6709287.stm | Phone-bullet robber found guilty 31 May 2007, 16:21 GMT 17:21 UK robber found guilty Darren Prior's mobile phone absorbed the impact of the bullet A man has been convicted of robbing a jewellery shop and then shooting the manager, who survived when the bullet hit his mobile phone. Sean Henry, 35, of Douglas Close, Wallington, south London, stole £50,000 of diamond rings from Amore Jewellers, in Horsham, West Sussex in 2005. Shop manager Darren Prior, 25, was shot as he gave chase, but the bullet hit a mobile phone in his suit jacket pocket. Henry was found guilty of attempted murder, robbery and possessing a gun. The robbery took place in the Sussex market town on the afternoon of 22 September, 2005. Henry entered the shop and ordered staff inside to hand over cash and jewellery. One man was threatened with being shot in the leg unless he opened a display cabinet before Henry had finished counting down from 10. Darren Prior chased Sean Henry through Horsham town centre Mr Prior told a trial at Hove Crown Court how the gunman turned and shot him during a chase that followed through the streets and side alleys of Horsham town centre. "I was about three-quarters of the way into an alleyway... I felt a shot and an impact on my right-hand side. "He was standing still and I felt a shot, it felt as though I had been punched. "I opened my jacket and looked at my shirt. There wasn't any blood. I looked into my pocket and realised that it had hit my mobile phone." Mr Prior continued giving chase until Henry made his escape in a getaway car driven by his accomplice, Timothy Cole, 30, of Squirrel Close, Langley Green, Crawley, West Sussex. Cole was also convicted of robbery on Thursday. Both men are due to be sentenced at the court on 28 June. travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Two on trial over jewellers raid 09 May 07 | Southern Counties Men in court over jewellers raid 14 Jun 06 | Southern Counties Armed raid reconstructed for TV 02 Nov 05 | Southern Counties Jeweller was hit by blank bullet 30 Sep 05 | Southern Counties Jeweller tells of gunshot escape 27 Sep 05 | Southern Counties Shot shopkeeper saved by mobile 23 Sep 05 | Southern Counties Her Majesty's Courts Service robber found guilty Anger as squatters wreck church Red faces at police station theft Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/6706871.stm fund for explosion victims 31 May 2007, 06:56 GMT 07:56 UK fund for explosion victims An inquest into Mr Herd's death was opened on Wednesday An appeal fund has been set up for the victims of an explosion which ripped through the centre of a County Durham market town on Saturday. The money will be donated to the widow of welder Andy Herd, 33, who died when his van exploded in Wolsingham. It was revealed on Wednesday that his wife Jennifer is expecting the couple's first child. Wolsingham Parish Council said the fund would also be shared between families whose homes were damaged by the blast. Wear Valley District Council has made the first contribution by pledging £1,000. Mr Herd, of Mill Race, Wolsingham, near Bishop Auckland, was killed when his when gas from cylinders in the back of his works van ignited in Wolsingham market square. The explosion happened shortly after Mr Herd stopped at a shop on the town's Front Street. Wreckage was strewn across the centre of the town It is understood the vehicle was moving at the time of the blast. No-one else was hurt in the blast but the explosion caused widespread damage to both residential and commercial properties around the market place. Some of the wreckage from the van landed 200 yards away in a local church and other fragments blew out a shop window. Residents living near the square began returning to their homes on Tuesday. Durham Police and the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) are trying to establish exactly what caused the oxy-acetylene cylinders to ignite. An inquest into Mr Herd's death was opened and adjourned on Wednesday. leisure, webcams and much more from the BBC website for Wear Sport, travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Tees Van blast welder was father-to-be 30 May 07 | England Van blast residents assess damage 29 May 07 | England Road re-opens at fatal blast site 28 May 07 | England Van blast zone 'very hazardous' 27 May 07 | England Driver dies in welding van blast 26 May 07 | England County Durham and Darlington Fire and Rescue Wear Valley District Council jailed over gang shootings Boy's custody death was suicide MP fined over disabled parking Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/6707889.stm critical in sub-station shock 31 May 2007, 12:26 GMT 13:26 UK critical in sub-station shock A man is in a critical condition after receiving a electric shock at a power sub-station in County Durham. Police said it was believed the 41-year-old touched a live pylon at the Addison Road station near Bishop Auckland at midday on Wednesday. He suffered burns to his body and is critical but stable in hospital. A police spokesman said an investigation was under way into how the man, who was not an electricity worker, had entered the secure site. He said: "The man is not an employee and it has not been established at this stage what he was doing inside the boundaries of the power station. "It is thought he may have received the shock from being in contact with an electricity pylon." The man was taken to Bishop Auckland General Hospital before being transferred to Newcastle Royal Victoria Infirmary. The sub-station is owned by utility firm NEDL. A 40-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of theft in connection with the incident. leisure, webcams and much more from the BBC website for Wear Sport, travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Tees jailed over gang shootings Boy's custody death was suicide MP fined over disabled parking Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/northamptonshire/6708473.stm | Family plea for arsonists to stop 31 May 2007, 16:05 GMT 17:05 UK plea for arsonists to stop Callum Bland, aged three, died from smoke inhalation The family of a toddler killed in a house fire in Northamptonshire has spoken for the first time of how the tragedy destroyed their lives. Callum Bland, aged three, died on 19 March in an arson attack on his home in the Fulmar Lane area of Wellingborough. His mother Jayne Fisher urged those carrying out arson attacks to "grow-up" and consider the consequences of their actions. "I just feel sorry for the family of whoever is doing it", Ms Fisher said. We have no memories or anything, they have all gone up in the house Paul Bonner, Callum's stepfather Paul Bonner, Callum's stepfather, said: "It's childish and immature. At the end of the day it could be another child that loses their life for the sake of a prank. "It's not just a bit of fun, they are playing with people's lives. We lost our home, we lost our son, we lost everything really." Mr Bonner added: "We have our three children and that is it. We have no memories or anything, they have all gone up in the house." Callum's mother and stepfather gave their first interview as police appealed for information about a spate of wheelie bin fires in neighbouring Cambridgeshire. The toddler who was asleep, was unable to escape with the rest of the family when the fire broke out. Ms Fisher, Mr Bonner, and three other children, aged from five months to five years old, managed to escape the blaze. A man aged in his 30s from Wellingborough, who was arrested in April as part of a police investigation into the fire, has now been released without charge. Three people remain on police bail in connection with a series of other fires on Wellingborough's Hemmingwell estate. AND AUDIO NEWS The family of a toddler killed in a house fire have spoken out Sport, travel, chat and more from the BBC in Northamptonshire Bin tests in fire death inquiry 29 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Fire death boy's inquest opened 23 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Inhaled smoke killed boy in fire 20 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Boy dies as bin fire ignites home 19 Mar 07 | Northamptonshire Northants Fire and Rescue plea for arsonists to stop Hammer used to threaten woman City's sorting office to relocate Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/lancashire/6707193.stm | Woman quizzed over fatal stabbing 31 May 2007, 11:45 GMT 12:45 UK quizzed over fatal stabbing Andrew Cole died from a single stab wound Detectives are continuing to question a 48-year-old woman on suspicion of the murder of a teenager in Lancashire. Andrew Cole, 19, was found dead at a property in Thornton, near Fleetwood, in the early hours of Tuesday. A post-mortem examination revealed that Mr Cole, who police said was well known in the area, died from a stab wound. The woman was arrested on Wednesday morning and is still being held by Lancashire Police, who are appealing for witnesses. An incident room has been set up at Fleetwood police station and police are trying to piece together the final movements of Mr Cole. Det Supt Steve Brunskill, of Lancashire police, said the murder was an "extremely tragic case" and officers were "keeping an open mind" on the motive. and features on the BBC's Lancashire website Murder inquiry after man stabbed 30 May 07 | Lancashire custody death was suicide Missing teenager 'was strangled' Woman quizzed over fatal stabbing Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/sussex/6707269.stm | Red faces at police station theft 31 May 2007, 09:31 GMT 10:31 UK faces at police station theft The theft at the police station follows a fire at the fire station An MP has predicted "red faces" after a policeman's private car was stolen during the day from Arundel police station in West Sussex. It follows a fire at the town's fire station in 2006. "The ambulance service nearby must be wondering what is going to happen to them," Nick Herbert said. On Thursday, the Arundel and South Downs MP told the BBC he would be asking about security at the station. Police said a man had been arrested and bailed after the theft on 22 May. A Sussex Police spokesman said the officer parked his car when he came on duty on 22 May, but it had gone when he went to go home. It partly gives cause for humour but it does raise some questions "We are looking at whether there was a break-in," he said. He added that the car was recovered later, in the vicinity of Arundel. He was unable to say what hours the officer was working that day. "It partly gives cause for humour but it does raise some questions about the security of these places," Mr Herbert said. He said: "You couldn't make it up. "When the fire station burnt down we were told it wasn't necessary to have fire alarms in fire stations which I thought was bizarre. "Now we have had a police station broken into and a car stolen, and I think the ambulance station nearby must be wondering what is going to happen to them next." He said he would be asking about security at the police station on Thursday and said: "I imagine there are going to be some red faces." travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Fire station blaze 'embarrassing' 26 Oct 06 | Southern Counties robber found guilty Anger as squatters wreck church Red faces at police station theft Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/cornwall/6707529.stm | Boys bailed over suspicious fires 31 May 2007, 10:22 GMT 11:22 UK bailed over suspicious fires Three boys arrested after a series of arson attacks in Cornwall have been released on bail. Fire crews alerted police after being called to a number of incidents in the early hours of Wednesday in Torpoint. A Citroen car and a Peugeot car were set alight, damaging nearby cars. Emergency services were then called to a car garage fire. Three boys, aged 15, 14 and 12, were questioned by police in Launceston before being released on bail. and features on the BBC's Cornwall website Boys questioned on arson attacks 30 May 07 | Cornwall Devon and Cornwall Police Devon and Somerset Fire and Rescue Service against fire service cuts Armed officers seal off property Rise in profits for water company Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/gloucestershire/6707007.stm | Alert over dumped farm chemicals 31 May 2007, 07:18 GMT 08:18 UK over dumped farm chemicals Some of the herbicide containers were full and unopened Farmers are being warned to use reputable waste companies after agricultural chemicals were found dumped in Gloucestershire. Up to 20 containers of industrial strength herbicides were found by a horse rider in woodland at Westonbirt. They were dumped about 40 yards from a stream and some were full and unopened. "If any of them had leaked it could have caused a great deal of damage to local plant and animal life, " said Pc Don Palfrey. "Many companies offer this kind of disposal service, but we believe there are some rogue agents operating who are quite happy to dump chemicals in the countryside once they have taken farmers' money." Martin Wright, National Farmers' Union spokesman for Gloucestershire, said: "Farmers have had to deal with a lot of new waste regulations and there have been a plethora of individuals and companies offering a service to dispose of such chemical containers. "I am very concerned that this sort of incident undermines the enormous efforts that the farming community has made adhering to these new rules." guide, sport and more from BBC Gloucestershire violence crackdown planned Alert over dumped farm chemicals Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/coventry_warwickshire/6707253.stm | Lindsay website gets 7,000 hits 31 May 2007, 11:15 GMT 12:15 UK website gets 7,000 hits Lindsay Ann Hawker's body was found in a bathtub of sand A website set up to help catch the killer of Warwickshire teacher Lindsay Ann Hawker has received 7,000 hits in four days. Www.lindsayannhawker.com was set up by her parents Bill and Julia, from Brandon, near Coventry. It aims to help catch the only suspect, Tatsuya Ichihashi, 28, who has not been seen since Japanese police approached him at his Tokyo apartment. Miss Hawker's body was found there buried in a bathtub of sand in March. Julia Hawker told BBC News: "The Lindsay Ann Hawker website's been set up both in English and Japanese and basically we're making an appeal to anybody, anywhere in the world, who knows any information as to the whereabouts of Tatsuya Ichihashi, the only suspect in the case." She added: "In real terms somebody can't hide away forever and he must be hiding somewhere. "Lindsay was a fantastic girl. Anybody who knew her and a lot of people did know her, would realise just how important it is to try to bring this man to justice." The Hawker family said most messages received via the website, which was set up on Sunday, had been from British ex-pats living in Japan. Tatsuya Ichihashi "can't hide away forever," Julia Hawker said A spokeswoman for the family said they were hopeful of receiving significant leads once the website was launched in Japan with a series of interviews next week. Any information received will be passed on to the Japanese police via their British counterparts. Miss Hawker, 22, had travelled to Japan to teach English as a foreign language. The Leeds University graduate was strangled and asphyxiated, post-mortem tests suggest. She had also suffered severe injuries to her face and arms. UK police are helping their Japanese counterparts in the search for Mr Ichihashi. Earlier this week, her parents revealed that Mr Ichihashi's father had sent them an apology via Japanese police and had called on his son to "atone for his crime". It was labelled a "hollow gesture" by Bill Hawker. Pictures and video footage of Mr Ichihashi have been widely circulated in Japan and photos of him can be seen at police stations across Tokyo. CCTV images of the teacher with Mr Ichihashi, said to have been taken hours before her death, were broadcast on Japanese television in April. Coventry and Warwickshire Sport, travel, leisure, message boards and much more Murder suspect father apologises 27 May 07 | Coventry/Warwickshire Plea to Japan media over murder 22 May 07 | Coventry/Warwickshire Teacher murder parents' TV plea 16 May 07 | Coventry/Warwickshire New images in Japan murder hunt 08 May 07 | Asia-Pacific Funeral held for murdered teacher 26 Apr 07 | Coventry/Warwickshire Profile: Lindsay Ann Hawker 28 Mar 07 | UK Lindsay Ann Hawker website website gets 7,000 hits City's sorting office to relocate Ambulance service merger approved Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/wiltshire/6707707.stm | Funding bid for 'green corridor' 31 May 2007, 10:32 GMT 11:32 UK bid for 'green corridor' Plans for a £20m "green corridor" between Swindon and Cricklade have been submitted for lottery funding. The Cricklade Country Way is a leisure project which aims to link the two Wiltshire towns via rail, bike and canal. The key elements include reopening the Wiltshire and Berkshire canal, reviving a bygone steam railway and linking up a disjointed national cycle route. There are also plans for a new 48 hectare country park. The scheme's proposers were last year given £250,000 to investigate and draw up the business plan. A team from the Big Lottery Fund is due to visit the area in July before a decision on funding is made in August. sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Wiltshire Canal team bids for £15m funding 13 Dec 05 | Wiltshire Cricklade Country Way Project Swindon and Cricklade Railway violence crackdown planned Church's laptops and safe stolen Funding bid for 'green corridor' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/sport1/hi/rugby_union/english/6707351.stm BBC SPORT | Rugby Union | English | Depleted England add Ojo to squad 31 May 2007, 09:45 GMT 10:45 UK England add Ojo to squad Ojo in action for the England Saxons against the USA South Africa v England Uncapped London Irish wing Topsy Ojo has been called up to the England squad for Saturday's second Test against South Africa in Pretoria. Ojo was added after the already weakened squad was further depleted by injuries and a stomach virus. "He was on stand-by for the England Saxons and will provide emergency back three cover," said coach Brian Ashton. "I didn't want to further disrupt the Saxons for the Churchill Cup final by taking another of their players." Who would be in your England XV? Bath full-back Nick Abendanon, who was man of the match for the Saxons in their win over Scotland A last weekend, has already been called up to the full squad. Your thoughts on England's selection problems Andy Farrell, James Simpson-Daniel and Mike Brown have all been ruled out of selection because of the virus, Andy Hazell is out with a knee injury and captain Jason Robinson is also a doubt with fluid on the knee. England were also deprived of David Strettle and Iain Balshaw, who were forced to fly home early because of the virus and a shin injury respectively. As a result of all the selection problems, Ashton will delay naming his starting team until Friday. England lose four for second Test 30 May 07 | English SA make tweaks for England Test 30 May 07 | English Strettle to return from SA tour 29 May 07 | English England delay team announcement 28 May 07 | English England Saxons 18-3 Scotland A 28 May 07 | Rugby Union White expects harder England test 28 May 07 | English Injured Balshaw ruled out of tour 27 May 07 | English Robinson bemoans England mistakes 26 May 07 | English South Africa 58-10 England 26 May 07 | English England Saxons 51-3 USA 18 May 07 | Rugby Union Rugby union on the BBC BBC Where I Live - England Your say on English rugby union - 606 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/hampshire/6707611.stm | £3m mobile phone raid near M-way 31 May 2007, 16:43 GMT 17:43 UK mobile phone raid near M-way The lorry was forced off the motorway by the thieves Police are appealing for witnesses who may have seen a stolen car suspected of being involved in a £3m mobile phone theft on the M3 to contact them. Masked men in a black Subaru forced a van from mobile phone firm Vertu off a link road near junction 4a of the M3 in Farnborough, Hampshire, on Wednesday. Four men from the car stole the phones. Police chased a Subaru which crashed and was abandoned in Slough, Berks. Two Hertfordshire men, aged 26 and 27, were arrested and taken into custody. Det Sgt Matt Watson, of Hampshire Constabulary, said: "The Subaru's received extensive rear damage during the incident and it is possible that someone may have seen it driving at speed on the M3. "I am appealing for anyone driving between Farnborough and Slough who thinks they may have seen this vehicle to get in touch." A spokesman from Thames Valley Police said: "Shortly after 3.30pm, a black Subaru failed to stop for a police car along the Wexham Road. "The vehicle made off from officers and was later involved in a collision in Wexham Street, with three stationary vehicles and one moving vehicle. "The Subaru was not in sight of the police car at the time of the collision." Four men got out of the vehicle which was abandoned in Wexham Street, he added. travel news and more from the BBC's Hampshire website Sport, entertainment and more from the BBC Berkshire website mobile phone raid near M-way Island ferry service is suspended Drivers kept to 20mph near homes Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/leicestershire/6709499.stm | Policeman cleared over phone sex 31 May 2007, 16:19 GMT 17:19 UK cleared over phone sex Mr Singh denied the 17 charges against him A police inspector accused of pleasuring himself while phoning women he traced via the force database has been formally cleared of all charges. Baljit Singh, 52, of Leicestershire Police, was alleged to have used his office phone to make the calls. He denied 17 charges of misconduct in a public office between December 2005 and January 2006. A judge at Northampton Crown Court ruled, even if true, the alleged crimes did not warrant a criminal charge. Mr Singh was alleged to have traced 10 different women who had been victims of a number of crimes including domestic violence and harassment. A spokeswoman for Leicestershire Police said he had since resigned from the force. I am satisfied that the defendant had no thought whatsoever that there would be any consequences for the victims At Northampton Crown Court, Judge Richard Bray ruled there was no case to answer as the allegations did not amount to such a serious case of misconduct to warrant a criminal prosecution. Giving his ruling, Judge Bray said: "The alleged victims were quite unaware of the defendant's alleged misconduct and would have remained unaware had the police and CPS not brought the matter to their attention. "I am satisfied that the defendant had no thought whatsoever that there would be any consequences for the victims. The judge said there was no evidence of any injury, distress or financial loss. "The behaviour alleged does not amount to the offence of misconduct in a public office." But he added: "I wish to make it perfectly clear it does not follow from this decision that this court condones conduct of this kind. "Any serving police officer who behaves in this way is clearly unfit to be a member of the force and should be dismissed." Judge Bray stressed his verdict was based on the prosecution evidence, adding: "It was a judgment I made on the allegations, not my findings on [Mr Singh]." and features on the BBC website for Leicester Officer denies sex call charges 26 Apr 07 | Leicestershire released in attacker hunt Policeman cleared over phone sex Pope meets parents of Madeleine Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/merseyside/6708255.stm | Woman trapped under bus rescued 31 May 2007, 12:17 GMT 13:17 UK trapped under bus rescued A woman is being treated for serious injuries after she became trapped underneath a bus in Merseyside. Emergency Services were called to the scene on Cook Street in Liverpool city centre at about 1100 BST. Two fire crews and a special rescue team were called to free the 55-year-old from the undercarriage of the single decker bus. She was taken to the Royal Liverpool Hospital with suspected internal injuries and shock. The vehicle was stabilised and air bags were used to lift the weight off the casualty as she was moved. It is not yet known how she became trapped underneath the vehicle. and features on the BBC's Liverpool website over theatre's rent hike Woman trapped under bus rescued Super health centre plans dropped Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/oxfordshire/6707543.stm | Cash problems close speedway club 31 May 2007, 09:56 GMT 10:56 UK problems close speedway club Attendances were too poor for the club to break even A long-standing speedway club has been closed down after low attendances left its owner struggling financially. Cowley-based Oxford Speedway has been pulled from the Elite and Conference leagues with "immediate effect" by its owner Colin Horton. Mr Horton said he had lost thousands of pounds since buying the club last year and could no longer bankroll it. The riders of both the Cheetahs and Lions teams are said to have already been looking for new clubs. If I could see even the smallest glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel I would have carried on Mr Horton said it was with "dismay" that he made the decision. But he added that he did not have an endless supply of money to sink into the club, which has been racing since 1939. "I have thought long and hard about this and it really is the toughest thing I have ever had to do," he said. "If I could see even the smallest glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel I would have carried on, but I can't. "The club is losing several thousand pounds each and every week and that cannot continue." The club has been attracting crowds of about 400 to 500 for its home meetings - a figure that would need to double for it to break even. games and chat on the BBC's Oxfordshire website employee shot in training Speedway club closed down More patrols tackle alcohol crime Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/staffordshire/6704201.stm | Ambulance service merger approved 31 May 2007, 11:31 GMT 12:31 UK service merger approved Staffordshire ambulance chiefs have formally agreed to merge with the West Midlands service. The move still needs to be ratified by the strategic health authority and the government, but both are expected to be a formality. Both ambulance services were told by the government last year that they must merge at a time to be agreed locally. The merger, which sparked a 5,000 signature petition in protest, is expected to take place on 1 October. Staffordshire Ambulance Trust did not join the West Midlands service when it was created in 2006 amid fears that it would damage its response times. The West Midlands organisation was formed when the Hereford and Worcester, Coventry and Warwickshire, West Midlands trusts, which also covered Shropshire, merged last year. The government had set both trusts certain targets before the merger could be approved. These included responding to 75% of life-threatening incidents within eight minutes and 95% within 19 minutes. They also had to demonstrate clinical performance for heart attack patients, good sickness absence levels among staff and sound finances. Staffordshire Ambulance Service Chairman Robert Lake said: "I recommended that my board approve the merger timetable for a number of reasons. "It is clear that the two trusts are operating at a similar level of performance and are now the top two performing services in the country in terms of response targets. "Where there are areas of difference the gap is closing rapidly and there are action plans in place to ensure that change continues. "The West Midlands has introduced working practices that have proven successful in Staffordshire and vice versa. It is a two way process." Stoke and Staffordshire Sport, travel and more for Stoke and Staffordshire Ambulance trust mergers discussed 09 May 07 | West Midlands Ambulance trust on track to merge 23 Feb 07 | Staffordshire Ambulance chief quits over merger 16 Mar 06 | Staffordshire Staffordshire Ambulance Service NHS Trust West Midlands Ambulance Service widening report welcomed Ambulance service merger approved Investment 'creates 1,800 jobs' Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/manchester/6706343.stm | Appeal over vanished businessman 31 May 2007, 05:26 GMT 06:26 UK over vanished businessman Mr Al-Hafeed has not been seen by his family for a year Greater Manchester police have issued a fresh appeal for information about a 38-year-old businessman who disappeared a year ago. Sarwar Al-Hafeed was last seen by wife Dana on the morning of 31 May, 2006, as he was preparing to leave their Didsbury home to go to work. Police fear the Iraqi father-of-three may have been abducted following a dispute with business associates. He had been involved in a dispute over money and title deeds to land in Iraq. In August his wife of 14 years offered a £500,000 reward for information leading to his safe return. On the day that he disappeared, Mr Al-Hafeed was going to Ducie Court, in Manchester city centre, where he worked as executive director of social housing organisation Leadstay. He was wearing a blue denim shirt, black canvas trousers and a khaki jacket when he left the house. Greater Manchester Police said it was extremely out of character for him to go missing and his bank accounts and mobile phone had remained untouched since his disappearance. Detectives are also keen to trace his car - a blue Ford Escort, registration number P87 RWX - which they believe may have been spotted on the day he went missing. We need to give his family some peace of mind to help them to move on with their lives Detective Superintendent Ian Foster It was reported being seen parked next to a white van on Mauldeth Road close to the junction with Parrswood Road. The doors to the van were apparently open and it was parked in such a way that pedestrians may have struggled to get past it. Detective Superintendent Ian Foster said: "It is now a year since Sarwar's family had any contact with him and we are still keen for any information on what happened to him. "Previous appeals have given us some lines of inquiry and we have been following them up, but we are still keen to speak to anyone with any further information on his whereabouts. "We can still not rule out the possibility that Sarwar went away of his own accord, although this would be extremely out of character for him. "I would like to make an appeal to Sarwar, or anyone who knows where he is to come forward with further information. "We need to give his family some peace of mind to help them to move on with their lives." AND AUDIO NEWS Mr Al-Hafeed's wife appeals for more information Information and features on the BBC's Manchester website £500k reward for husband's return 16 Aug 06 | Manchester Abduction fear over businessman 05 Jul 06 | Manchester Salford move gets green light Fire crew 'slept in wrong place' Motorway widening report welcomed Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles Tiscali e-mail 'hit' by spammers and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/kent/6706901.stm | Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge 31 May 2007, 07:13 GMT 08:13 UK survives 100ft cliff plunge A woman has survived a 100 ft cliff plunge in Kent, ending up conscious and with just broken bones. She then spent three hours trying to get a mobile phone signal to call 999, a coastguard spokesman said. The woman was found more than 100ft (30m) down, from sloping cliffs near Reculver Towers, Herne Bay. The unnamed woman, who was airlifted to hospital by RAF helicopter, early on Thursday, did not suffer life-threatening injuries. The cliff rescue operation was co-ordinated by Thames Coastguard involving teams from Herne Bay and Margate. sport, chat and more from the BBC website for Kent Maritime and Coastguard Agency for action after fatal crash Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge One dead and two injured in crash Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6707099.stm Midlands | Trams cancelled after vandalism 31 May 2007, 07:50 GMT 08:50 UK cancelled after vandalism Thousands of commuters in Birmingham and the Black Country have been delayed after vandalism stopped all trams running on the Metro tram service. Overhead cables were brought down by vandals on Wednesday evening in the Soho area of Birmingham. The damage means all trams running between the city and Wednesbury Park have been cancelled. Travel Midlands Metro said the problems were likely to continue throughout the rest of Thursday. British Transport Police are investigating the incident. AND AUDIO NEWS 'Worst vandal attack' on the Midlands Metro Travel, sport, culture and webcams from the BBC for Birmingham and Solihull Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Trams cancelled after vandalism Kwik Save confirms store closures Ambulance service merger approved Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/hampshire/6709553.stm | Island ferry service is suspended 31 May 2007, 16:28 GMT 17:28 UK ferry service is suspended A ferry service from the Isle of Wight has been suspended after a problem on board a vessel on Thursday afternoon. Red Funnel said the stoppage was due to "an ongoing non-injury incident involving a passenger" who boarded the 1530 BST sailing from East Cowes. Police officers are at the scene but the exact nature of the incident has not been revealed. Passengers are advised to use the Southampton-West Cowes Red Jet service which is operating as normal. travel news and more from the BBC's Hampshire website Island ferry company may be sold 12 Apr 07 | Hampshire mobile phone raid near M-way Island ferry service is suspended Drivers kept to 20mph near homes Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/default.stm 4's PM programme 31 May 2007, 16:54 GMT 17:54 UK Hitman jailed over gang shootings A gunman is jailed for at least 35 years for killing one man and trying to kill another on the orders of a gang. Men on trial over pub death Reward offered in shooting case Boy's custody death was suicide A 14-year-old boy found dead at a secure unit 150 miles from his home, killed himself a jury rules. MP fined over disabled parking Tory MP Anthony Steen is fined for illegally parking in a disabled bay at a railway station. NEWS WHERE YOU LIVE Three people killed in M40 crash 'Hero' gun victim making progress Lindsay website gets 7,000 hits Appeal for van blast victims Stop and search 'damaging' School power to search for knives ALSO IN THE NEWS Why a sleepy fire crew faces the sack for shunning a chair Friends fined for pretending to be a lonely heart A school tells why it introduced airport style search wands Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows? Are Premiership footballers worth £200,000 a week? VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Cancer was 'life changing' Coroner in verdict apology Stamp of approval for service Schools get knife search power More Video / Audio News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Theme park for Potter fans World's smallest horse tours US Headlines from BBC News 24 Spy death suspect 'blames UK' MORE NEWS FROM AROUND ENGLAND Phone-bullet robber found guilty Island ferry service is suspended Red faces at police station theft £3m mobile phone raid Speedway club forced to close Woman survives 100ft cliff plunge Family plea for arsonists to stop Seized Elvis goods go to auction Policeman cleared over phone sex Trams cancelled after vandalism Regeneration 'creates 1,800 jobs' Police find cabbie killers' car Man critical in sub-station shock Appeal for missing businessman Woman trapped under bus Woman quizzed over stabbing Original plans for the Kop found Open verdict in death punch case Funding bid for 'green corridor' Boys bailed over suspicious fires Alert over dumped chemicals Ex football club chairman jailed Hargreaves signs for United Rugby U: Ojo joins England squad Athletics: Radcliffe deal unsigned Hamster bite puts man in hospital Brummie girls 'not pretty enough' Arrest over rail 'hero' shooting A new breed of eco-warrior fights Stansted expansion plans Your clickable guide to BBC News Interactive English Regions FROM OTHER BBC SITES Find out about your community from bbc.co.uk in England ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC meets parents of Madeleine
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/merseyside/6707595.stm | Original plans for the Kop found 31 May 2007, 10:39 GMT 11:39 UK plans for the Kop found The first ever plans of the famous Kop stand at Liverpool Football club have been published in a new book about the sporting history of the area. Researchers for the book, Played in Liverpool, claim to have spent years scouring Merseyside to uncover undiscovered sporting gems. A key find includes the 1932 foundation stone of the Anfield stadium, which was discovered in a dockside garage. The original 1905 plans for the Kop were also unearthed. The author of the book on Merseyside's sporting past also relays how football's original goal nets were invented by a canny Liverpool engineer. It also highlights the dockside location of Britain's first ever municipal swimming baths. and features on the BBC's Liverpool website Dispute over theatre's rent hike Woman trapped under bus rescued Super health centre plans dropped Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lincolnshire/6707507.stm | Seized Elvis goods go to auction 31 May 2007, 10:36 GMT 11:36 UK Elvis goods go to auction Julie Wall stole the money over a 10-year period Rare Elvis records, Christmas cards and magazines bought by a former council employee who embezzled almost £600,000, are to go on sale in Derbyshire. Julie Wall, 47, from Rippon Drive in Sleaford, Lincs, was jailed in October 2005 for three years for stealing the money from North Kesteven Council. The Crown Prosecution Service said the money raised from the sale would go back to the council as compensation. The sale takes place on 10 June at the Derby Auction Rooms. Wall stole nearly £598,000 over a 10-year period when she was working as a cashier for the local authority, sometimes pocketing up to £10,000 a month. The crime only came to light when an internal audit revealed more than £500,000 was missing from council funds. The Elvis memorabilia was seized under the Proceeds of Crime Act and the CPS has organised the auction. "Our message to all those who commit any crime for financial gain is that when they are caught, they not only run the risk of a prison sentence but they will also be stripped of the full profits of their crimes," said Gary Balch, head of the CPS confiscation unit. "Ms Wall paid approximately £500,000 for the collection but she was prepared to pay anything she was asked to for the items and sometimes the prices were a little silly. "It's unlikely we'll recoup the full amount owed but all items have been valued for auction and we're confident we'll get the best possible price for them." AND AUDIO NEWS £600,000 stolen for Elvis memorabilia. Leisure, environment, sport and more from the BBC website for Lincolnshire Sport, travel, leisure and more from the BBC website for Derby Swindler's Elvis goods to be sold 06 Jan 06 | Lincolnshire Cashier jailed over Elvis theft 20 Oct 05 | Lincolnshire North Kesteven District Council dies days after house crash Seized Elvis goods go to auction More seats for coastal visitors Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Tinted windows to the soul Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? Blair may have some explaining over South African arms deal Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/leicestershire/6709499.stm | Policeman cleared over phone sex 31 May 2007, 16:53 GMT 17:53 UK cleared over phone sex Mr Singh denied the 17 charges against him A police inspector accused of pleasuring himself while phoning women he traced via the force database has been formally cleared of all charges. Baljit Singh, 52, of Leicestershire Police, was alleged to have used his office phone to make the calls. He denied 17 charges of misconduct in a public office between December 2005 and January 2006. A judge at Northampton Crown Court ruled, even if true, the alleged crimes did not warrant a criminal charge. Mr Singh was alleged to have traced 10 different women who had been victims of a number of crimes including domestic violence and harassment. A spokeswoman for Leicestershire Police said he had since resigned from the force. I am satisfied that the defendant had no thought whatsoever that there would be any consequences for the victims At Northampton Crown Court, Judge Richard Bray ruled there was no case to answer as the allegations did not amount to such a serious case of misconduct to warrant a criminal prosecution. Giving his ruling, Judge Bray said: "The alleged victims were quite unaware of the defendant's alleged misconduct and would have remained unaware had the police and CPS not brought the matter to their attention. "I am satisfied that the defendant had no thought whatsoever that there would be any consequences for the victims. The judge said there was no evidence of any injury, distress or financial loss. "The behaviour alleged does not amount to the offence of misconduct in a public office." But he added: "I wish to make it perfectly clear it does not follow from this decision that this court condones conduct of this kind. "Any serving police officer who behaves in this way is clearly unfit to be a member of the force and should be dismissed." Judge Bray stressed his verdict was based on the prosecution evidence, adding: "It was a judgment I made on the allegations, not my findings on [Mr Singh]." In a statement Leicestershire Police said: "When concerns are reported about the conduct of an officer the police service has a duty to investigate those concerns." It added that an "exhaustive" investigation had been carried out into the case by the professional standards department and evidence gathered had been put before the CPS. The statement concluded: "We are currently considering our options at this time and it would therefore not be appropriate to comment further." and features on the BBC website for Leicester Officer denies sex call charges 26 Apr 07 | Leicestershire released in attacker hunt Policeman cleared over phone sex Pope meets parents of Madeleine Potter theme park planned Washington diary: Seeking a visa Boyfriend pillow for Japan singles EMI strikes a deal with YouTube and offline worlds merge Holiday girl abducted, police say Tinted windows to the soul UK 'behind Litvinenko poisoning' Italy inmates seek death penalty do search engines know about us from our online habits? The challenge facing ex-News of the World editor with the Tories Boy racers or 4x4 mummies - why the fad for tinted windows?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/cornwall/6719639.stm | MoD set to block sat nav systems 4 June 2007, 14:48 GMT 15:48 UK E-mail this to a friend MoD set to block sat nav systems People in Cornwall have been warned satellite navigation systems will not work later this week as the Ministry of Defence carry out a jamming exercise. The aim of the GPS blocking exercise is to find out how interference could affect military personnel. It will take place on Thursday and Friday. The MoD said its Portreath base would be the base. The effect will extend for a radius of 11 km (7 miles) which would cover Camborne and Redruth. "Although GPS provides highly accurate information, the radio signals from the satellite are extremely weak and are susceptible to both jamming and unintentional radio interference," said the MOD in a statement. "The trials are taking place to better understand these effects on military equipment and therefore will help to protect our forces." An MOD spokesman said all the emergency services which might use the systems have been informed and if an emergency is under way, the MOD can suspend the trial. All ambulances are fitted with satellite navigation and in a statement, South Western ambulance service said it was aware of the jamming exercise and that key staff had been informed. Falmouth Coastguard said it had also been told. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Emergency services staff have been informed of the trial Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall Sat-nav blamed for village jams 07 Mar 06 | Somerset crash boat driver 'drunk' MoD set to block sat nav systems Officers work to trace siege man family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/business/6718353.stm | Bates regains Leeds Utd control 4 June 2007, 10:37 GMT 11:37 UK E-mail this to a friend Bates regains Leeds Utd control Bates is in the driving seat to stay in charge at Elland Road Ken Bates has regained control of Leeds Utd following a recount of votes taken at last week's creditors' meeting. After putting the club in administration with debts of £35m on 4 May, Mr Bates required 75% of creditors' votes to buy the club back. The recount showed that 75.2% of creditors backed his plans to offer them just 1p in the £1 of debts owed. His plan faced strong opposition at Friday's meeting, with some creditors backing rival offers. "I am satisfied that, in voting to accept this proposal, the creditors have approved a solution that allows the club to plan ahead for next season, reduced uncertainty for all those with an interest in Leeds United, provided some return to creditors and avoids liquidation," said joint administrator Richard Fleming of KPMG. The administrators said last week that there were five consortia who had proved they had the funds in place to buy the stricken Yorkshire club. While KPMG refused to say who were Mr Bates' rivals, local property developer Simon Morris and Duncan Revie, son of former manager Don, had lodged an interest. The Football League issued a short statement, "noting the decision" of Leeds' creditors to approve the proposed Company Voluntary Agreement (CVA). "The League has confirmed to the administrator that conditions must be satisfied before the League board can consider transferring the club's share in The Football League to the new company," it read. "These conditions include the need for all 'football debts' to be settled in full." The League will make no further comment during the 28 days it will take for the CVA to be formalised. During the 28-day period any creditor who wishes to dispute the sale can pursue the option of taking the matter to court. "The important thing now is we make progress," said Mr Bates. "There's been a suggestion of challenging what has happened, but you can't challenge for the sake of challenging, you have to have a reason. "If someone decides to challenge what's happened they will affect the running of Leeds United - and we will take them on because we want to move forward." Mr Bates, formerly owner of Chelsea, arrived at Leeds Utd in January 2005, when he bought a 50% stake. The club went into administration last month, a move that meant it was docked 10 points which ensured its relegation to League One. Leeds Utd's financial problems stretch back several years. In 2001, Leeds reached the semi-final of the European Champions League, however, despite spending millions on players, the club failed to qualify for the competition in the following seasons. This failure to qualify led the club to rack up huge debts. In October 2003, Leeds reported a pre-tax loss of £49.5m for the year to 30 June 2003, which at the time was a record annual deficit for a Premiership football club. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Leeds United fans react to hearing Ken Bates is back Leeds Utd call in administrators 04 May 07 | Business Bates warning over Leeds future 29 May 07 | Leeds United Revie edges closer to Leeds bid 23 May 07 | Leeds United Krasner fury at Bates' Leeds bid 17 May 07 | Leeds United The demise of Leeds United 04 May 07 | Leeds United Bates calls for Leeds investment 05 May 07 | Leeds United Leeds fans' views on 606 BBC Radio Leeds audio regains Leeds Utd control First Choice Tui merger cleared Launch date for iPhone revealed family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/tees/6720953.stm | Drugs hope patient to stay home 4 June 2007, 20:20 GMT 21:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Drugs hope patient to stay home Mr King was prepared to move to Scotland for the treatment A Teesside cancer patient is no longer moving to Scotland for potentially life-prolonging treatment after a u-turn on drugs advice. George King from Skelton has multiple myeloma - an incurable bone cancer. He planned to move after the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) said Velcade would cost too much for the NHS in England. But on Monday, NICE endorsed a scheme which should ensure multiple myeloma patients can be prescribed the drug. A single course of treatment can cost around £25,000. In January, NICE, which recommends drugs the NHS should prescribe, argued that Velcade is too expensive when measured against how long it can prolong life. But under the terms of the new recommendation, proposed by drugmaker Janssen-Cilag, patients showing minimal or no response would be taken off it - and the costs would be refunded by the manufacturer. NICE is now recommending multiple myeloma patients in England and Wales should get Velcade on the NHS. Velcade has performed well in trials Mr King said: "We'd actually been to Scotland, looked at properties, visited lots of estate agents, got brochures and decided on an area we wanted to move to. "I'm becoming a grandfather for the first time in August - that's one of the reasons I'm so happy, because it means I won't have to be up in Scotland. "And hopefully I'll respond positively and it will give me two more years of life." Life expectancy for multiple myeloma patients is three to five years, but in trials Velcade has been shown to extend that by many months. The final decision on whether to put the refund scheme into practice rests with the manufacturer and the Department of Health, with final NICE guidance expected in October. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, webcams and more from the BBC website for Tees Cancer-drug refund scheme backed 03 Jun 07 | Health Cancer patient considers new home 14 Jan 07 | Tees National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence hope patient to stay home Crash driver 'knew of collision' Bird haven saved from drying out family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/beds/bucks/herts/6718775.stm | Man arrested over fatal M40 crash 4 June 2007, 17:26 GMT 18:26 UK E-mail this to a friend Man arrested over fatal M40 crash A man has been arrested at the scene of a seven-vehicle collision on the M40 in Buckinghamshire in which one person was killed and several others injured. It happened on Monday on the southbound carriageway between junctions two and 1A, between Beaconsfield and Denham. Traffic is being diverted on to the A40 but there are extensive tailbacks and drivers are advised to avoid the area. The accident comes just four days after three people died in a collision on the M40, near High Wycombe. Thames Valley Police appealed for any witnesses to Monday's crash and the drivers of two vehicles, a black Vauxhall Zafira and a black Volkswagen Transporter van to contact them. Insp Colin Clark, of Amersham roads policing unit, said: "We know these vehicles were near the scene of the accident and the drivers may well have information that could help us. "I would like to reassure the drivers they are not suspects but we believe they may have information which is important to our investigations." Several of the injured people have been taken to Wexham Park Hospital, in Berkshire. E-mail this to a friend BBC Beds Bucks and Herts Travel, leisure, sport, message boards and much more found in hunt for woman Man arrested over fatal M40 crash Double decker loses roof in crash family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/london/6720213.stm | Child sex abuse conductor jailed 4 June 2007, 16:13 GMT 17:13 UK E-mail this to a friend Child sex abuse conductor jailed King said the allegations were lies A leading British orchestra conductor has been jailed for nearly four years for sexually abusing young boys. Robert King, 46, assaulted five youngsters, one when he was 12 years old, after plying them with alcohol, Isleworth Crown Court was told. One of the boys said he was "sexually used" for years at King's home in Ealing, west London. Mr King, of Alpheton, Suffolk, was convicted of 14 counts of indecent assault between 1982 and 1995. The court was told he was very well-known in musical circles and was in a position to advance the careers of the boys. The conductor has worked on film music for Ridley Scott's Kingdom Of Heaven, Shrek 2 and The Da Vinci Code. He had also presented programmes for the BBC and toured the world with several orchestras. Imposing sentence totalling three years nine months, Judge Hezlett Colgan told King: "Your victims were in their early or mid-teens at the time. "In the case of four of them you were a trusted mentor and friend and trusted completely by their families." Sarah Whitehouse, prosecuting, said three of his victims were under 16 and claimed some of the attacks occurred "under the guise of some sort of game, such as a mock wrestle". She told the court each of the five he allegedly targeted kept quiet about what had happened for many years. All were now adults and although some of their recollections might now be "hazy", the accounts they had given police contained "very similar features". King, who was cleared of one count of indecent assault, told the court that all those levelling allegations against him were "absolute" liars. E-mail this to a friend Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Sport, entertainment, features and more from the BBC website for Suffolk Conductor made 'childhood misery' 18 May 07 | London Conductor 'abused teenaged boys' 08 May 07 | London sex abuse conductor jailed Body sparks murder inquiry City boss held after girl injured family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/northamptonshire/6718655.stm | Man crushed by pet food machine 4 June 2007, 14:23 GMT 15:23 UK E-mail this to a friend Man crushed by pet food machine An engineer was crushed to death as he tried to clear a blockage in a machine at a pet food factory in Northamptonshire, an inquest heard. John O'Connor, 38, who lived in Pine Grove, Rugby, died in November 2003 at Butchers Pet Care in Crick. The inquest heard he was working an evening shift when a can stacking machine became clogged and he tried to unblock it. The inquest is continuing in Irthlingborough, Northamptonshire. It heard that despite a number of guard rails and sensors to cut power to the huge machine and its pallet hoists in an emergency, Mr O'Connor was able to reach through a gap in between two guard rails to unblock the machine. The machine started back up and the motorised pallet hoist raised, crushing Mr O'Connor in less than two seconds. A post-mortem examination confirmed the cause of death was crush asphyxia. Det Insp Andy Tennet, of Northamptonshire Police, said the Health and Safety Executive immediately halted the machine's use after the death. He said: "On the night in question Mr O'Connor probably heard an alarm sounding. "When he got to the machine he entered the machine via the gap in the stair area and reached to free the pallet. "The moment the pallet was freed the sensors recognised this and the hoist was reset. As the machine was empty it would have risen quite quickly." E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel, chat and more from the BBC in Northamptonshire BBC Coventry and Warwickshire Sport, travel, leisure, message boards and much more Her Majesty's Court Service crushed by pet food machine Two men are sought in sex attack Armed police called to incident family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/lincolnshire/6717869.stm | Sport hall delay tactic defeated 4 June 2007, 11:32 GMT 12:32 UK E-mail this to a friend Sport hall delay tactic defeated A move to halt the construction of a £15m leisure complex in Lincolnshire has been thrown out by officials. Campaigners had hoped to block a proposed sports and community centre by having the land in Wood Lane in Louth declared a village green. The county council dismissed the move saying there was no evidence it was used for this purpose. Protesters said they would keep putting in objections until the council found an alternate site for the complex. The council added that an application for the sports centre itself would be considered separately. Building work was due to begin earlier in the year, but East Lindsey District Council and some residents clashed over the chosen location. The district council said the playing fields offered the most sustainable location for a leisure centre and pool. But opponents claimed the development would cause pollution and noise problems to people living nearby. E-mail this to a friend Leisure, environment, sport and more from the BBC website for Lincolnshire Group opposes new leisure centre 06 Mar 07 | Lincolnshire Approval for £15m leisure centre 15 Feb 07 | Lincolnshire New £15m sports project approved 24 May 06 | Lincolnshire East Lindsey District Council charged with brother's murder Man charged over post office raid Sport hall delay tactic defeated family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/cumbria/6717977.stm | Woman dies in island chalet blaze 4 June 2007, 08:06 GMT 09:06 UK E-mail this to a friend Woman dies in island chalet blaze An investigation into the cause of the fire has been launched A woman has died in a fire at a privately-owned chalet in Cumbria. Fire crews were called to West Shore Park in Walney Island, near Barrow-in-Furness, in the early hours of Monday. The woman, whose name has not been released, was found dead in the single-storey building after firefighters put out the blaze. Group manager Peter Higgins, of Barrow fire station, said a joint police and fire investigation had started. He said: "The chalet was well alight when crews arrived and it took about 20 minutes to extinguish. "The woman's body was discovered in the lounge area." The timber framed building had been badly damaged by the fire. E-mail this to a friend Environment, leisure and more from the BBC website for Cumbria Cumbria Fire and Rescue Service deaths water was 'untreated' Woman dies in island chalet blaze Play money used to con pensioner family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/gloucestershire/6718171.stm | College re-named in brand change 4 June 2007, 09:09 GMT 10:09 UK E-mail this to a friend College re-named in brand change The keys to the new campus will be handed over on 22 June A college has changed its name ahead of the opening later this month of a new £40m state-of-the art campus. Gloscat (Gloucestershire College of Arts and Technology) is now to be known as Gloucestershire College as part of a new brand identity. The new dockside campus, due to open on 22 June, is the latest in a series of investments to update facilities. Principal Greg Smith said the new name was more relevant to the social and economic changes of the 21st Century. "Those kind of names were around 10 or 20 years ago and we feel that shortening it to Gloucestershire College more accurately reflects the fact that we work throughout Gloucestershire," he said. "And of course, we have over 1,000 students from abroad and the term Gloscat doesn't mean very much to an overseas student either." The college, which was formed in 1980, offers further and higher education courses at sites in Gloucester and Cheltenham. It also runs short business courses, as well as part-time and evening classes. E-mail this to a friend County guide, sport and more from BBC Gloucestershire College IT facility on the move 04 Sep 06 | Gloucestershire Gloscat college builder signs up 02 Sep 05 | Gloucestershire Work on college campus to start 03 Apr 05 | Gloucestershire re-named in brand change Grave vandalism 'despicable act' Girl sacrifices gifts for hospice family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/6718123.stm kill three motorcyclists 4 June 2007, 08:54 GMT 09:54 UK E-mail this to a friend Crashes kill three motorcyclists Three motorcyclists have died in separate road accidents in the South East over the weekend. In Kent, the rider of a red Yamaha motorbike died at the scene of a crash on the A2 Watling Street at its junction with Elaine Avenue, in Strood. On the A22 at Nutley, near Crowborough, East Sussex, a Suzuki rider was fatally injured in a collision with two cars. And in Surrey, a motorcyclist died of his injuries after being airlifted from a crash on the A217 near Banstead. His bike collided with a car at the main road's junction with Chipstead Road, at about 1400 BST on Sunday. The cars involved in the Sussex crash, which happened at about 1635 BST on Sunday, were a Vauxhall Astra and a Fiat Punto. A 43-year-old motorcyclist from London died of his injuries. A 22-year-old man from Rochester, Kent, was pronounced dead at the scene of the crash in Strood. The accident happened at about 1150 BST on Sunday. E-mail this to a friend Sport, travel and more from the BBC website for Surrey and Sussex Travel, sport, chat and more from the BBC website for Kent South East Coast Ambulance Service admits five crash deaths Bridge death girl spoke of sex attack Investigation into chemical fire family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/6720579.stm jailed for chilli 'torture' 4 June 2007, 18:49 GMT 19:49 UK E-mail this to a friend Pair jailed for chilli 'torture' Two women who force-fed children raw chilli and raw eggs, and stung them with nettles, have been jailed for acts of "sustained cruelty". Maria Keable, from Ramsgate, Kent, and Deirdre Carrington, from west London, were sentenced to 19 months in prison at Canterbury Crown Court on Monday. The two Mormon women have also been banned from working with children. "This was a case of sustained cruelty that some would say bordered on torture," said Judge Timothy Nash. "It had a sadistic element to it." Those children will be emotionally scarred for many years to come The pair were found guilty of six child cruelty offences and one assault charge between 1997 and 2006 at Canterbury Crown Court last month. Judge Nash said: "The one thing that has been unimpressive since your conviction in the case of both of you is that there is not one single word of remorse. "Those children will be emotionally scarred for many years to come." They became friends after meeting at a Mormon temple in London in 1997. The court was told Keable and Carrington had beaten the four girls and two boys with wooden rolling pins and kicked and punched them. They also force-fed the children with hot chilli powder - a punishment they used on a two-year-old-girl. Keable saw her actions as Christian and believed in "love with boundaries", Canterbury Crown Court was told. Judge Nash said: "You were undoubtedly, Maria, obsessed with punishment. You behaved like a hospital matron of the 19th Century, bullying the children in an unforgivable way." Keable, aged 60 and from Macedonia, had told police "in her country, the use of chilli was normal". Judge Nash told her: "It's no good you saying 'this is what we did in Macedonia'. "You have been over here for 40 years, you know how we live over here and that's what makes your part in this so wrong." Carrington, 41, of Chiswick, told police she was having "emotional problems" when she made one girl eat chilli powder. They were both jailed for 14 months for six child cruelty offences and five months for an assault offence. They also received Prevention Orders which ban them from working with children indefinitely. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Two women are jailed for 19 months for child cruelty Travel, sport, chat and more from the BBC website for Kent Travel, features and more from the BBC website for London Raw chilli pair guilty of cruelty 02 May 07 | England 'Love and discipline' trial claim 26 Apr 07 | England Children 'force fed raw chillies' 17 Apr 07 | England Her Majesty's Courts Service admits five crash deaths Bridge death girl spoke of sex attack Investigation into chemical fire family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/devon/6717935.stm | HMS Sutherland set to return home 4 June 2007, 07:53 GMT 08:53 UK E-mail this to a friend HMS Sutherland set to return home HMS Sutherland was anchored in Safaga, Egypt Devonport-based HMS Sutherland is set to return to her home port after completing an eight-month deployment in the Gulf. The Type-23 frigate has now handed over duties of protecting Iraqi oil platforms to HMS Richmond in Egypt. Her crew have also been busy in counter-terrorism operations as well as dealing with smugglers and pirates. The crew are to complete some duties in the Mediterranean before returning to their families in Plymouth. The ship paid a visit to Safaga in order for the crew to enjoy some rest and recreation following operations in the Red Sea. Commanding Officer, Cdr Paul Romney said: "Sutherland has enjoyed a very rewarding deployment so far with some hugely interesting work on our own and in concert with other coalition vessels. "Safaga has proved to be a very popular visit with the Ship's Company, especially the tour of the Valley of the Kings. Although our deployment is not yet finished the handover to HMS Richmond does mark the start of our return home." E-mail this to a friend Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Frigate returns after Baltic trip 24 Jun 05 | Devon Devonport frigate in anti-terrorist operation and two children die in fire Town poised for its own currency Council urged to rethink casino family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/default.stm 4 June 2007, 21:01 GMT 22:01 UK Soldier admits five crash deaths An army corporal admits causing a road crash in which five people, including two teenage sisters, died. Thanksgiving service for sisters Bridge death girl spoke of sex attack A teenager who fell to her death from a motorway bridge had reported she was the victim of a sexual assault. Investigation into chemical fire An investigation is opened into a huge fire at a chemical plant in Crewe which sent smoke across the town. NEWS WHERE YOU LIVE Pair jailed for chilli 'torture' Empty school places hit 758,000 Crimewatch appeal for Madeleine Man and two children die in fire Body sparks murder investigation ALSO IN THE NEWS Birdwatchers in flutter as heron returns after 141 years How a town is taking on the Treasury and printing its own money Readers send in their pictures of the Crewe chemical fire London's historic views are under threat from new planning laws Readers' alternative logos for the London 2012 Olympics VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS Petition to scrap 2012 logo Reds' fans anger at labelling Body found in woman hunt Chemical fire rocks town More Video / Audio News MOST POPULAR VIDEO AND AUDIO Hilton starts jail sentence Amsterdam's nude photo shoot Putin makes nuclear threat London reveals logo for 2012 London logo divides opinion MORE NEWS FROM AROUND ENGLAND Child sex abuse conductor jailed City boss held after girl injured Million-pound drugs trial fails Crashes kill three motorcyclists Man 'copied internet rape scene' Suitcase murder retrial ordered Man crushed by pet food machine Double decker loses roof in crash Air tanks removed after sabotage Man sentenced for second killing Man arrested over fatal M40 crash Sport hall delay tactic defeated Biscuit job losses 'rise to 821' Drugs hope patient to stay home Woman dies in island chalet blaze Tributes to motorcycle death boys Murder officers question two men Lucky escape for crash land pilot MoD set to block sat nav systems Death crash boat driver 'drunk' Ballot on council reform proposal HMS Sutherland to return home New name for rebranded college Apology from disabled parking MP London unveils 2012 logo Football: Bates regains Leeds Hockey: Jackson makes squad Red-haired family forced to move Person injured in crane collapse Gang jailed over luxury car scam Why one woman is opting for breast augmentation surgery Your clickable guide to BBC News Interactive English Regions FROM OTHER BBC SITES Find out about your community from bbc.co.uk in England ELSEWHERE ON THE BBC
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/west_midlands/6720637.stm Midlands | Man sentenced for second killing 4 June 2007, 18:11 GMT 19:11 UK E-mail this to a friend Man sentenced for second killing A man who has already served time in prison for killing a man has been given an indeterminate jail sentence after being convicted of manslaughter. Father-of-three Avtar Singh Dhooper, 53, was found guilty at Wolverhampton Crown Court of killing Gurdev Singh. The 64-year-old died 11 days after being found with head injuries in Bromley Street, Blakenhall, last June. Dhooper, of Uplands Road, Willenhall, was jailed for six years in 1994 for the manslaughter of his best friend. He had battered to death Gurdarshan Singh Bilkhu in West Bromwich, his trial at Stafford Crown Court was told. Sentencing him for his second killing, Judge John Wait told Dhooper it was clear he posed a significant risk of causing death or serious harm in the future. He ruled he would serve a minimum term of three-and-a-half years. E-mail this to a friend Culture, leisure, sport and more from the BBC website for the Black Country WEST MIDLANDS STORIES Man sentenced for second killing Air tanks removed after sabotage Council protects NEC pension fund family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/other_sports/olympics_2012/6718243.stm BBC SPORT | Other Sport... | Olympics 2012 | London unveils logo of 2012 Games 4 June 2007, 14:44 GMT 15:44 UK E-mail this to a friend London unveils logo of 2012 Games The logo for the 2012 Olympics and Paralympics has been unveiled in a star-studded ceremony in London. The jagged emblem, based on the date 2012, comes in a series of shades of pink, blue, green and orange and will evolve in the run-up to the Games. The word London and the Olympic rings are included in the first two digits of the new logo. "This is the vision at the very heart of our brand," said London 2012 organising committee chairman Seb Coe. Report: London unveils logo of 2012 Games News conference: 2012 organising chief Paul Deighton We've had a huge reaction to the launch of the new logo - most of it negative Interactive Olympics editor Claire Stocks "It will define the venues we build and the Games we hold and act as a reminder of our promise to use the Olympic spirit to inspire everyone and reach out to young people around the world. "It is an invitation to take part and be involved. "We will host a Games where everyone is invited to join in because they are inspired by the Games to either take part in the many sports, cultural, educational and community events leading up to 2012 or they will be inspired to achieve personal goals." The new design, which cost £400,000, has received a mixed response, but Lord Coe was adamant it put across the image and message that he wanted the London Games to deliver to the world. "It's not a logo, it's a brand that will take us forward for the next five years," he told BBC Five Live. When people see the new brand, we want them to be inspired to make a positive change in their life "It won't be to be eveybody's taste immediately but it's a brand that we genuinely believe can be a hard working brand which builds on pretty much everything we said in Singapore about reaching out and engaging young people, which is where our challenge is over the next five years. "If we don't that, then frankly the whole project is unsustainable." For the first time the same logo will be used for both the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Organisers hope the brand will boost the marketing push to raise £2bn to stage the Games and convey the message that London 2012 will be "Everyone's Games". Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "We want London 2012 not just to be about elite sporting success. "When people see the new brand, we want them to be inspired to make a positive change in their life. "London 2012 will be a great sporting summer but will also allow Britain to showcase itself to the world." Lord Coe wants the branding to appeal to young people International Olympic Committee President Jacques Rogge said: "This is a truly innovative brand logo that graphically captures the essence of the London 2012 Olympic Games - namely to inspire young people around the world through sport and the Olympic values. "Each edition of the Olympic Games brings its own flavour and touch to what is now well over a century of modern Olympic history; the brand launched today by London 2012 is, I believe, an early indication of the dynamism, modernity and inclusiveness with which London 2012 will leave its Olympic mark." The brand, designed by Wolff Ollins, has been targeted at the young people the organisers hope will get involved. It is a deliberate change from previous Olympic logos, which often feature an image from the city. Olympics Minister Tessa Jowell said: "This is an iconic brand that sums up what London 2012 is all about - an inclusive, welcoming and diverse Games that involves the whole country. "It takes our values to the world beyond our shores, acting both as an invitation and an inspiration. "This is not just a marketing logo, but a symbol that will become familiar, instantly recognisable and associated with our Games in so many ways during the next five years." What do you think of the logo? British Paralympic Association chief executive Phil Lane believes that having one logo for both the Olympics and Paralympics is a positive move. "As the founding nation for the Paralympic movement it is fitting that Britain should lead the way in integrating the two Games," he said. "We hope that the brand will succeed in inspiring Britain's youth and Paralympic athletes to success." Plans have also been drawn up to create a different logo for grassroots projects backing the Games. Your alternative London logos It would not include the Olympic rings but would spread the benefits of hosting the Games to projects involved in its grassroots cultural, environmental and sporting work. A London 2012 spokeswoman said: "It is not going to be a free for all. There would be conditions to qualify for it. "It is not about giving it out to people so that they do not pay for it. It is about an emblem that could be a stamp of endorsement that really fits in with the legacy of the Games." London Mayor Ken Livingstone added: "The new Olympic brand draws on what London has become - the world's most forward-looking and international city. "That message of welcome and diversity was one of the main reasons for London's success in winning the Games. "We offer the world the same exciting message that in 2012 every athlete and every visitor will feel at home in our city." How would you rate the London 2012 logo? Results are indicative and may not reflect public opinion London unveils first 2012 sponsor 14 Mar 07 | Olympics 2012 Olympics budget rises to £9.3bn 15 Mar 07 | Politics OTHER SPORT SITES London Organizers unveil logo for 2012 Games - 1 hr ago Initial logo for London Olympics revealed - 2 hrs ago Bold And 'Iconic' - But What Exactly Is It? - 2 hrs ago Olympics Logo Unveiled - 3 hrs ago London Olympics new GBP500,000 logo unveiled - to widespread derision - 4 hrs ago BBC PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/cornwall/6719955.stm | Death crash boat driver 'drunk' 4 June 2007, 15:24 GMT 16:24 UK E-mail this to a friend Death crash boat driver 'drunk' Philip Colver denies manslaughter The driver of a speedboat which crashed into another vessel killing a man and injuring two others had been drinking all day, a court heard. Philip Colver, 32, of St Mary's, Isles of Scilly, was found to be twice over the legal alcohol limit. He had consumed about nine pints of lager. Benjamin Cochrane, 31, from St Mawes, died in the crash. He had also been drinking and was twice over the limit. Mr Colver denies manslaughter and two counts of grievous bodily harm. Benjamin Cochrane's craft also had no lights The crash happened on 16 January 2005 at 2200 BST, Truro Crown Court was told. Mr Colver was driving the 21ft speedboat Carrie Kate when he collided with Mr Cochrane's 15ft Dory, a small fishing boat, near Castle Point, St Mawes. Mr Cochrane's brother Frazer and friend Chay Richardson were injured. Mr Colver has admitted failing to keep a proper watch, driving at excess speed and failure to exhibit navigational lights. Prosecutor Phil Mott QC told the court Mr Colver had not turned the speedboat's lights on and that Mr Cochrane's boat did not have lights. He said: "You have to think of the relative chances between that big boat and anything he was likely to meet in the middle of July on a summer night. "What would stand a chance if hit by the Carrie Kate at speed?" Mr Mott said that Mr Colver had been warned earlier in the day by the harbour master for speeding. He said he was carrying three passengers at the time of the crash and had been travelling at speeds of up to 30 knots. E-mail this to a friend VIDEO AND AUDIO NEWS The boats collided off St Mawes Castle Surfing news, webcams and more from the BBC website for Cornwall crash boat driver 'drunk' MoD set to block sat nav systems Officers work to trace siege man family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/somerset/6717787.stm | Ballot on council reform proposal 4 June 2007, 06:07 GMT 07:07 UK E-mail this to a friend Ballot on council reform proposal Nearly 400,000 people in Somerset are being balloted on how they think the county should be run. Residents are being asked their views on scrapping the five district councils and replacing them with one unitary authority. The county council has government backing to take the proposal forward, but the districts are opposing it. The district councils have commissioned the poll on the issue, to be carried out by the Electoral Reform Services. Both sides will be going head to head in a public debate at Somerset Cricket Club in Taunton on Monday night. E-mail this to a friend Carnival, going out, views and more from the BBC website for Somerset evacuated after rocket found Dotcom student to make millions Ballot on council reform proposal family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/tyne/6718463.stm | Tributes to motorcycle death boys 4 June 2007, 10:14 GMT 11:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Tributes to motorcycle death boys Conor Lowden (left) and Ross Leggate were due to sit their GCSEs Tributes have been paid to two teenage boys killed in a motorcycle accident on Tyneside. Pillion passenger Conor Lowden, died at the scene. The rider, Ross Leggate, died from his injuries in hospital. Ross, 16, of Wenlock Drive, and 15-year old Conor of Bamburgh Terrace, North Shields, were pupils at John Spence Community High School. The Kawasaki 750 they were riding crashed into a lamppost on Malvern Road in Preston Grange on Saturday. Police have traced the owner of the powerful motorbike and are trying to establish what caused the crash. Head teacher Jim Stephenson said of the boys, who were about to sit their GCSE exams: "The whole school is very saddened by the deaths of Ross and Conor and we are offering support to both children and staff. "They were two very lively and popular boys, both with lots of friends. "All our thoughts are with their families at this very difficult time. In the future we will discuss with them what they feel may be an appropriate memorial." Examinations are still going ahead but the school has informed the exam board about the current circumstances. E-mail this to a friend Sport, chat, travel and much more from the BBC website for Tyne to motorcycle death boys Three rescued from tidal causeway Lucky escape for crash land pilot family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/merseyside/6720357.stm | Biscuit job losses 'rise to 821' 4 June 2007, 17:27 GMT 18:27 UK E-mail this to a friend Biscuit job losses 'rise to 821' Talks are being staged to try to get the firm to reverse its decision A top level Whitehall meeting is to take place over the decision to close a biscuit factory in Wirral, with the loss of more than 800 jobs. Angela Eagle, Labour MP for Wallasey, is to discuss the closure of Burton's biscuit factory in Moreton with Work and Pensions Secretary, John Hutton. The minister agreed to the meeting after she told him in the Commons that the job cuts had risen to 821. The company is the largest private sector employer in her constituency. Burton's Foods announced the proposed cuts last month following an "extensive" review of its business operations. Initially, it said there would be 660 job cuts, although Ms Eagle told the Commons on Monday that this figure had "now gone up to 821". Support is strong from the local community but there's no doubt we are facing a tough battle Franny Joyce, Unite union "Will my right honourable friend meet a delegation and tell us what we can expect, should these closures go ahead, so that we can try to recover back to the low rates of unemployment that my constituents have got used to in the last 10 years?" Mr Hutton told the Commons that efforts would be made to find work for those affected in Ms Eagle's constituency through Job Centre Plus. But he added: "I'm very happy to meet my honourable friend and to discuss with her what arrangements we can put in place to help her constituents." In addition to the ministerial meeting, a delegation of workers and union leaders from the Unite union are due to meet employment minister Jim Murphy on Tuesday evening. Franny Joyce, regional organiser, said: "Support is strong from the local community but there's no doubt we are facing a tough battle. "Meeting the minister is a significant part of our campaign. "We'll make sure he knows the importance of the plant to the area and see what he can do to assist us." No-one was available from Burton's Foods to comment on the job loss figures. E-mail this to a friend Information and features on the BBC's Liverpool website MP meeting over biscuit job cuts 16 May 07 | Merseyside Union meets over biscuit job cuts 14 May 07 | Merseyside Biscuit company to axe 660 jobs 11 May 07 | Merseyside Crunch time at Wagon Wheels firm 24 Nov 06 | Business job losses 'rise to 821' Caborn and Parry hit back at Uefa Two robbers on-run from open jail family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/go/rss/-/1/hi/england/devon/6716671.stm | Apology from disabled parking MP 3 June 2007, 16:52 GMT 17:52 UK E-mail this to a friend Apology from disabled parking MP Mr Steen said he would not be claiming on his expenses A Conservative MP who parked illegally in a disabled bay has said comments he made were misconstrued. Anthony Steen, MP for Totnes in Devon, left his car at Newton Abbot rail station for several days last week and received two fixed penalty notices. Mr Steen caused a furore by claiming the number of parking spaces for disabled people was disproportionate. But the MP apologised on BBC South West's Politics Show and said he would never park in a disabled bay again. "I apologised the very day I did it - both on radio and in the newspapers - and I'm apologising now," he said. "It was careless, inconsiderate and wrong. I've driven for 45 years and I have never, ever parked in a disabled space and never will I do so again." He said his comments about an "absurd number of handicapped spaces", which were seldom used were not a criticism of disabled people. Mr Steen defended his comments by saying he believed the reason some disabled bays remained empty at railway stations was a disability access issue. "They're not using them because of the difficulty in getting on the train and that's the important point," he said. He added he would now campaign for better access to public transport for disabled people. Mr Steen said he would not be claiming the cost of his parking fines on expenses. E-mail this to a friend Sport, leisure, environment and more from the BBC website for Devon Parking bay MP branded 'an oaf' 01 Jun 07 | Politics and two children die in fire Town poised for its own currency Council urged to rethink casino family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport1/hi/other_sports/hockey/6718807.stm BBC SPORT | Other Sport... | Hockey | Jackson wins England squad place 4 June 2007, 11:29 GMT 12:29 UK E-mail this to a friend Jackson wins England squad place Jackson's call-up is reward for a fine season England have named East Grinstead forward Ashley Jackson in their squad for the Champions Challenge in Belgium. The 19-year-old, the leading domestic goalscorer last season, takes the place of the retired Jerome Goudie. The only other change to the squad which finished fifth at last year's World Cup sees Surbiton's Ben Marsden return after an ankle injury. England begin their campaign in the event for teams ranked seventh to 12th against Argentina in Boom on 23 June. They then face India, New Zealand, Japan and hosts Belgium. Head coach Jason Lee said: "The squad is largely unchanged from the one which competed in the World Cup in September with the addition of Ashley Jackson following an excellent performance in the GB Super League where he was top goalscorer." N Brothers (gk), R Mantell, S Mantell, J Clarke (Reading), G Kirkham, A Jackson (East Grinstead), R Alexander, M Daly, B Garrard, Rob Moore, J Tindall, B Marsden (Surbiton), J Fair (gk), M Jones, S Cordon (Cannock), B Hawes (Amsterdam), B Middleton (HGC), J Bleby (Loughborough Students). Seymour Called up to Champions Challenge Squad Leicester find Silver in Europe England Women's Champions Challenge Squad Selected Updated: 30 May, 14:54 GMT These links are not under BBC editorial control England see off world champions 01 May 07 | Hockey Hockey news from BBC Essex Have your say on Hockey - 606 PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Daily and weekly e-mails Cookies Policy
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/bradford/6717783.stm | Murder officers question two men 4 June 2007, 06:20 GMT 07:20 UK E-mail this to a friend Murder officers question two men A post-mortem test found Nazeer Ahmed died from head injuries Two men have been arrested by police investigating the murder of a man in his West Yorkshire home. Nazeer Ahmed, 22, was discovered at his house in Rupert Street, Lawkholme, Keighley, on Thursday afternoon. Police said a man in Cheshire had been detained under the Mental Health Act and a man in London arrested in connection with the killing. Three people arrested at the murder scene have since been released, West Yorkshire Police added. Detectives started a murder investigation after a post-mortem examination showed Mr Ahmed had suffered severe head injuries. E-mail this to a friend BBC Bradford and West Yorkshire Culture, leisure, travel, message boards and more Man found dead in house is named 02 Jun 07 | Bradford Four held after man's body found 01 Jun 07 | West Yorkshire Three welcome NHS scheme Murder officers question two men Bates regains Leeds Utd control family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/tyne/6717999.stm | Lucky escape for crash land pilot 4 June 2007, 09:14 GMT 10:14 UK E-mail this to a friend Lucky escape for crash land pilot A pilot escaped with minor injuries when his light aircraft flipped over during an emergency landing in a field in North Tyneside. Members of the public reported that the plane appeared to be in trouble before it landed behind Wesbourne Terrace in Seaton Delaval. Emergency services were alerted and paramedics treated the 59-year-old from East Boldon at the scene. Air accident investigators have been called in. E-mail this to a friend Sport, chat, travel and much more from the BBC website for Tyne to motorcycle death boys Three rescued from tidal causeway Lucky escape for crash land pilot family barred from toilet Cannabis 'disrupts brain centre' Launch date for iPhone revealed New era of discord for Russia and West Nato condemns Putin missile vow Most popular now, in detail Your alternative Olympic logos Nato condemns Putin missile vow Brand's Brit jokes escape censure Paris Hilton starts jail sentence Naked Blair at centre of art show Most popular now, in detail Is China's climate change stance a new challenge to UK policy? What do you think of the new logo for the London Olympics? What makes ordinary folk plunge into debt chasing celeb dream?
