http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/europe/31naples.html garbage dumps anger rises as fast as May 29 — Business at Pizzeria Napoli Nord is down 70 percent, and no one has the slightest doubt why: The reasons include eggshells, scuzzy teddy bears, garlic, hair that looks human, boxes for blood pressure medicine, moldy wine bottles — all in an unbroken heap of garbage, at places 6 feet high, stretching along the curb to the pizzeria’s doorstep. Skip to next paragraph you see all this trash, you don’t have much desire to eat,” said the owner, Vittorio Silvestri, 59, who, like most people in and around Naples these days, is very angry at his leaders. For a dozen years, Naples and surrounding towns like this one have periodically choked on their refuse, but the last two weeks have flared into a real crisis, as much political as sanitary: trash began piling high in the streets as places to dump it officially filled up. Then, on Saturday, the last legal dump closed. As the piles rose and the stench spread, fires burned some nights — one of many trash-related protests that included, inevitably, mothers clutching rosaries on railroad tracks. And while a patchwork of emergency measures has eased the crisis in the past few days, even the beleaguered men whose job it is sympathized. “The people are right,” said Guido Lauria, in charge of sanitation for a large section of the city, including the Soccavo neighborhood, where his workers cleared away heaps of garbage. “You smell this. People have children, but animals come, then insects. And then they complain.” The problems around Naples, a city long defined by both its loveliness and its squalor, are complicated, raising worries about tourism, inequity in southern Italy and the local mafia, the Camorra. But put simply, the bottom line seems the failure of politics, never a strong point here. As trash dumps filled over the years, it proved impossible to find new places or ways to get rid of garbage, largely because of local protests or protection by one politician or another. But years of postponing the problem finally caught up with Naples (and by bad luck just as the temperature rose, creating as much stink as unsightliness). “This is a situation that is tied to the incapability of the political structure,” said Ermete Realacci, an environmental expert and member of Parliament for the center-left Daisy Party. Namely, he said, politicians of all stripes have been unwilling “to make strong choices” to build new dumps or incinerators. And so, as the world’s news media fixed on trash fires burning in the streets, the nation’s president, Giorgio Napolitano, issued an unusual “extremely energetic appeal” to all levels of government and to politicians of the left, right and center finally to solve the crisis. At stake was not just public order, he said, but “the image of the country.” The president’s office normally holds itself above daily politics. But in this case Mr. Napolitano, a courtly native of Naples, used his prestige to persuade the residents of one town — led by one devout and praying woman called La Passionaria di Parapoti — to allow a closed local dump to be reopened for a brief 20 days. That, combined with several other temporary measures, is allowing Naples and the surrounding communities to finally begin digging out — and to lower tempers a little, too. Already the center of Naples, amid worry about the risk to a tourist trade it depends heavily on, seems largely clean, few days, the sanitation department has clicked into an emergency mode that has cleared away an impressive amount of trash. But the dumps are temporary, the fires have not stopped and much trash remains, compounding longstanding problems in the poorer south of Italy, especially in the peripheral neighborhoods of dingy high-rises already plagued by drugs and the Camorra. On Tuesday in Scampia, most dangerous neighborhoods, drug dealers sat across the street from a Dumpster spilling over with construction debris and unidentifiable mushy rot. “It’s never been like this — I can’t tell you why,” said Sabato D’Aria, 37, owner of a small grocery nearby. Politicians, he said, only “talk, talk, talk, but in the end you see very little.” “Unfortunately, here in the south we are always more penalized. Italy is divided.” There is also the problem of the Camorra, which profits extraordinarily in the endless crisis over trash, much as arms dealers thrive in war. Peter Kiefer contributed reporting from Naples and Rome. To End Rail Havoc Festival's Crucifix Is Scrapped Vivendi Starts Sale of Stake in Utility Unit IDEAS & TRENDS; Europe's Failing Effort To Exile Toxic Trash Waste Materials and Disposal
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html?partner=rssnyt International News Bush spoke in Washington today about global warming. for Emissions By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The U.S. had been expected to be criticized on global warming at next week’s summit of leading industrialized nations. STEVEN ERLANGER and HASSAN M. FATTAH Islamist groups are vying for influence in Gaza in a race to fill the security vacuum created by fighting between Fatah and Hamas. Bush Requests $30 Billion to Fight AIDS By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG The near doubling of financing is part of an effort to burnish the president’s humanitarian credentials. Nominee Has New Agenda for Bank By STEVEN R. WEISMAN People close to Robert B. Zoellick, President Bush’s pick to head the World Bank, say he is likely to bring a demanding approach that could disturb the status quo. Times Topics: Robert B. Zoellick Syria, Lebanese Opposition Condemn U.N. Abbas, Olmert to Try to Mend Cease - Fire Suspect Accuses British in Spy’s Death U.S. Urges Iran to Change Tactics British Academics’ Top Court Doesn’t Honor Muslim’s Conversion U.S. and Iraqi Forces Seek Abducted Britons in Raid NATO Soldiers Killed in Crash of a Helicopter in Afghanistan Honor Slain Russian Journalist With a Book and Demand Justice Thai Court Disbands Former Prime Minister’s Political Party Nigeria: American Oil Workers Released Arrested in Killing of Judge’s Aide Journalists Receive Bullet Threats U.S. Envoy in Talks About North Korea Peres Seeks a Chance to Serve Again Israeli Airstrike Kills 2 Tinky Winky Flip-Flop A First in Nigeria: A Peaceful Succession of Power Oil May Allow Sudan to Escape Sanctions’ Pain Chavez Opposition Wants Protesters Freed Mexico: Migrant Jumps to His Death in Immigration Sweep Tax Increase Batters Chinese Stocks, but There’s Little Wider Damage Pakistan’s Suspended Justice Tells of Facing Down Musharraf Approves Court to Prosecute Hariri Killing 3 Iranian-Americans Charged by Tehran With Espionage from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 dumps in Naples, Italy, is rising along with the Élysée, Seeing a New Camelot Some are comparing the Sarkozy family to the Kennedys, while others are saying that their untraditional ways are shameful to the French. A Deadly Search for Missing Soldiers Michael Kamber accompanied soldiers from the 10th Mountain Division as they searched for missing comrades in Iraq. The Flemish Sport of Finching Dan Bilefsky reports from a town in Belgium where winning birds are feted like feathered opera divas. Targeting the Afghan Drug Trade James Risen reports that the virulent opium trade has helped revive the Taliban while corroding the credibility of the government. Sabrina Tavernise reports on the migration of religious Turks from the country's heartland into its secular cities. Breeding Ground for Jihad Michael Moss reports on a city in Jordan that is sending would-be jihadis to Iraq. Weekly reports from the international staff Herald Tribune Columnists Today in TimesSelect » Goals Suspect: U.K. Involved in Ex - Spy's Death Cuba And Spain Discuss Human Rights Senegal Sees "Atlantic Dubai" New Beachside Capital There's Something In The Air In Rome: Cocaine Thaksin Supporters Rally After Thai Court Bans Party Times Topics: Find News By Country Go to a Country Page Russia and the Post-Soviet Nations Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Svalbard and Jan Mayen Times Topics in the News Pope Benedict XVI » Oil and Gasoline » Group of 8 » The Reach of War: Iraq & Afghanistan » MOST POPULAR - WORLD Naples Journal: of China Food and Drug Unit Sentenced to Death for Graft Memo From London: North Iraq, Academics&#8217; Iraqi Refugees Turn to Quiet Revolution in Algeria: Gains by Women Malaysian Court Refuses to Recognize Woman&#8217;s Conversion to Christianity Grows as G.I.'s in Iraq Find Allies in Enemy Ranks Militants Widen Reach as Terror Seeps Out of Iraq Strife Is Foreseen in Iraq if U.S. Troops Leave As Allies Turn Foe, Disillusion Rises in Some G.I.'s U.S. Rebuffs Germany on Greenhouse Gas Cuts China Sentences Former Drug Regulator to Death Strife in North Iraq as and Iranian Officials Meet in Baghdad, but Talks Yield No Breakthroughs Shiite Cleric Appears in Iraq After Stay in Iran From BBC Radio BBC News, World Edition News From Der Spiegel Interview With Turkish Premier: 'If the EU Doesn't Want Us, They Should Say it Now' News From Council on Foreign Relations Interview: Revolutionary Guards Have Financial Interest in Keeping Iran Isolated Backgrounder: A National ID Program for Iraq? Interview: Putin Likely to Remain Powerful Figure After 2008 How Biofuels Could Starve the Poor Al Qaeda Strikes Back world events at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Looking for a job? Buy, sell or rent a home. Find a world of reasons to go. Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead What’s new on Broadway?
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/middleeast/31haditha.html PENDLETON, Calif., May 30 &#151; Two Marine junior officers, in testimony made public on Wednesday, said they had no reason to suspect a possible war crime when they inspected the human carnage, women and children, after an infantry attack that killed 24 Iraqi civilians in Haditha in 2005. But First Lt. Alexander Martin, suggested that killing of civilians &#151; which followed a roadside bomb blast that killed one marine and wounded two others &#151; was that Haditha residents became noticeably more helpful, if not quite friendly, to the Americans. &#8220;After 19 November,&#8221; Lieutenant Martin said in videotaped testimony, referring to the day the civilians were killed in 2005, &#8220;I had people coming up to me to tell me where the I.E.D.&#8217;s were.&#8221; I.E.D. stands for improvised explosive device, or officer testifying, First Lt. Max D. Frank, offered a detailed and gruesome accounting of the human remains &#151; children and two women on one bed &#151; that the officers saw in three homes that had been attacked by a squad of infantryman searching for insurgents whom they suspected of detonating the introduced on Wednesday, both videotaped in March because the officers were to return to Iraq, came at a hearing for Lt. Col. Jeffrey R. Chessani, a former commander of the Third Battalion, First Marines, who is one of four officers charged with dereliction of duty for failing to investigate the Haditha killings properly. In his own videotaped testimony, Marine prosecutor that each of the eight bodies he found on the bed had &#8220;multiple holes&#8221; in it, and that one child&#8217;s head was missing. But Lieutenant Frank repeatedly said in his testimony that he had never considered the possibility that a war-crime violation had occurred, the legal threshold under Marine Corps regulations that compels an episode to be reported to a superior officer. &#8220;It was unfortunate what happened, sir,&#8221; marine prosecutor, Lt. Col. Sean Sullivan, &#8220;but I didn&#8217;t have any reason to believe that what they had done was on purpose,&#8221; he said who killed the civilians in a house-to-house attack after coming under fire from insurgents. He said he and other officers had agreed to portray the deaths to Haditha town leaders as an unfortunate and unintended result of local residents&#8217; allowing insurgent fighters to use family homes to shoot at passing American patrols. After returning to the Marine base near Haditha on the evening of Nov. 19, 2005, Lieutenant Frank said, another officer, First Lt. Adam P. Mathes, told him that the Marines should not issue an apology for wrongfully killing civilians but offer a less conciliatory statement. Lieutenant Frank said Lieutenant Mathes, the company&#8217;s executive officer, advised a Marine major assigned to a civil affairs unit that &#8220;the best way to explain this to the Iraqi people&#8221; would be to tell them, &#8220;It&#8217;s an unfortunate thing that happens when you let terrorists use your house to attack our troops.&#8221; Lieutenant Frank, who testified after being granted immunity from prosecution in the Haditha case, said he complained to the company commander about the way that marines were forced to photograph and collect the 24 bodies. The marines had only four or five body bags at the base and used them of the dead civilians, said Lieutenant Frank. The children&#8217;s remains were placed in trash bags, he said. When the marines&#8217; four-Humvee convoy carrying the bodies arrived at a local hospital morgue that evening, Iraqi workers reacted in horror and some vomited at the sight, he testified. on Haditha Panel Peer Into Fog of War Marine Refused Staff's Advice On Iraq Deaths, Major Testifies Says Civilian Toll In Haditha Was a Shock Dropped Against Marine United States Armament and Defense
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/europe/31naples.html but one of the Naples garbage dumps are closed, and residents' anger rises as fast as the smelly mounds. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 , May 29 — Business at Pizzeria Napoli Nord is down 70 percent, and no one has the slightest doubt why: The reasons include eggshells, scuzzy teddy bears, garlic, hair that looks human, boxes for blood pressure medicine, moldy wine bottles — all in an unbroken heap of garbage, at places 6 feet high, stretching 100 or more yards along the curb to the pizzeria’s doorstep. Skip to next paragraph you see all this trash, you don’t have much desire to eat,” said the owner, Vittorio Silvestri, 59, who, like most people in and around Naples these days, is very angry at his leaders. For a dozen years, Naples and surrounding towns like this one have periodically choked on their refuse, but the last two weeks have flared into a real crisis, as much political as sanitary: trash began piling high in the streets as places to dump it officially filled up. Then, on Saturday, the last legal dump closed. As the piles rose and the stench spread, 100 or more refuse fires burned some nights — one of many trash-related protests that included, inevitably, mothers clutching rosaries on railroad tracks. And while a patchwork of emergency measures has eased the crisis in the past few days, even the beleaguered men whose job it is to collect the trash sympathized. “The people are right,” said Guido Lauria, in charge of sanitation for a large section of the city, including the Soccavo neighborhood, where his workers cleared away heaps of garbage. “You smell this. People have children, but animals come, then insects. And then they complain.” The problems around Naples, a city long defined by both its loveliness and its squalor, are complicated, raising worries about tourism, inequity in southern Italy and the local mafia, the Camorra. But put simply, the bottom line seems the failure of politics, never a strong point here. As trash dumps filled over the years, it proved impossible to find new places or ways to get rid of garbage, largely because of local protests or protection by one politician or another. But years of postponing the problem finally caught up with Naples (and by bad luck just as the temperature rose, creating as much stink as unsightliness). “This is a situation that is tied to the incapability of the political structure,” said Ermete Realacci, an environmental expert and member of Parliament for the center-left Daisy Party. Namely, he said, politicians of all stripes have been unwilling “to make strong choices” to build new dumps or incinerators. And so, as the world’s news media fixed on trash fires burning in the streets, the nation’s president, Giorgio Napolitano, issued an unusual “extremely energetic appeal” to all levels of government and to politicians of the left, right and center finally to solve the crisis. At stake was not just public order, he said, but “the image of the country.” The president’s office normally holds itself above daily politics. But in this case Mr. Napolitano, a courtly native of Naples, used his prestige to persuade the residents of one town — led by one devout and praying woman called La Passionaria di Parapoti — to allow a closed local dump to be reopened for a brief 20 days. That, combined with several other temporary measures, is allowing Naples and the surrounding communities to finally begin digging out — and to lower tempers a little, too. Already the center of Naples, amid worry about the risk to a tourist trade it depends heavily on, seems largely clean, few days, the sanitation department has clicked into an emergency mode that has cleared away an impressive amount of trash. But the dumps are temporary, the fires have not stopped and much trash remains, compounding longstanding problems in the poorer south of Italy, especially in the peripheral neighborhoods of dingy high-rises already plagued by drugs and the Camorra. On Tuesday in Scampia, one of the city’s most dangerous neighborhoods, drug dealers sat across the street from a Dumpster spilling over with construction debris and unidentifiable mushy rot. “It’s never been like this — I can’t tell you why,” said Sabato D’Aria, 37, owner of a small grocery nearby. Politicians, he said, only “talk, talk, talk, but in the end you see very little.” “Unfortunately, here in the south we are always more penalized. Italy is divided.” There is also the problem of the Camorra, which profits extraordinarily in the endless crisis over trash, much as arms dealers thrive in war. Peter Kiefer contributed reporting from Naples and Rome. to know more? 50% off home delivery find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Italy: Deal To End Rail Havoc Italy: 2000 Festival's Crucifix Is Scrapped Vivendi Starts Sale of Stake in Utility Unit IDEAS & TRENDS; Europe's Failing Effort To Exile Toxic Trash Waste Materials and Disposal million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html?partner=rssnyt International News - Bush spoke in Washington today about global warming. Bush Calls for Global Goals for Emissions By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS The U.S. had been expected to be criticized on global warming at next week’s summit of leading industrialized nations. STEVEN ERLANGER and HASSAN M. FATTAH Islamist groups are vying for influence in Gaza in a race to fill the security vacuum created by fighting between Fatah and Hamas. Taliban May Have Caused Copter Crash, Officials Say NATO forces in Afghanistan said that they were investigating whether enemy fire brought down a Chinook helicopter on Wednesday, killing sevent troops. Bush Requests $30 Billion to Fight AIDS By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG The near doubling of financing is part of an effort to burnish the president’s humanitarian credentials. W.H.O. Seeks More AIDS Tests in Nations at Epidemic’s Center Bush’s Nominee Has New Agenda for Bank By STEVEN R. WEISMAN People close to Robert B. Zoellick, President Bush’s pick to head the World Bank, say he is likely to bring a demanding approach that could disturb the status quo. Times Topics: Robert B. Zoellick Hezbollah, Syria Denounce U.N. Tribunal Abbas, Olmert to Try to Mend Cease - Fire Suspect Accuses British in Spy’s Death U.S. Urges Iran to Change Tactics British Academics’ Union Endorses Israel Boycott W.H.O. Seeks More AIDS Tests in Nations at Epidemic’s Center Malaysia Top Court Doesn’t Honor Muslim’s Conversion U.S. and Iraqi Forces Seek Abducted Britons in Raid 2 Marines Deny Suspecting Haditha War Crime 7 NATO Soldiers Killed in Crash of a Helicopter in Afghanistan Rice Clashes With Russian on Kosovo and Missiles Colleagues Honor Slain Russian Journalist With a Book and Demand Justice Thai Court Disbands Former Prime Minister’s Political Party Nigeria: American Oil Workers Released Pakistan: 4 Arrested in Killing of Judge’s Aide Pakistan: 3 Journalists Receive Bullet Threats China: U.S. Envoy in Talks About North Korea East: Israel: Peres Seeks a Chance to Serve Again East: Gaza: Israeli Airstrike Kills 2 Poland: Tinky Winky Flip-Flop A First in Nigeria: A Peaceful Succession of Power Oil May Allow Sudan to Escape Sanctions’ Pain Chavez Opposition Wants Protesters Freed Mexico: Migrant Jumps to His Death in Immigration Sweep Tax Increase Batters Chinese Stocks, but There’s Little Wider Damage Pakistan’s Suspended Justice Tells of Facing Down Musharraf British Academics, or Rock Bands, Boycott Israel? U.N. Approves Court to Prosecute Hariri Killing 3 Iranian-Americans Charged by Tehran With Espionage from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 but one of the garbage dumps in Naples, Italy, are closed, and anger is rising along with the smelly mounds. At the Élysée, Seeing a New Camelot Some are comparing the Sarkozy family to the Kennedys, while others are saying that their untraditional ways are shameful to the French. A Deadly Search for Missing Soldiers Michael Kamber accompanied soldiers from the 10th Mountain Division as they searched for missing comrades in Iraq. The Flemish Sport of Finching Dan Bilefsky reports from a town in Belgium where winning birds are feted like feathered opera divas. Targeting the Afghan Drug Trade James Risen reports that the virulent opium trade has helped revive the Taliban while corroding the credibility of the government. Sabrina Tavernise reports on the migration of religious Turks from the country's heartland into its secular cities. Breeding Ground for Jihad Michael Moss reports on a city in Jordan that is sending would-be jihadis to Iraq. Weekly reports from the international staff Herald Tribune Columnists Today in TimesSelect » Bush Calls for Global Emissions Goals Hezbollah, Syria Denounce U.N. Tribunal Suspect: U.K. Involved in Ex - Spy's Death Cuba And Spain Discuss Human Rights Senegal Sees "Atlantic Dubai" New Beachside Capital There's Something In The Air In Rome: Cocaine Times Topics: Find News By Country Go to a Country Page Russia and the Post-Soviet Nations Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Svalbard and Jan Mayen Times Topics in the News Pope Benedict XVI » Oil and Gasoline » Group of 8 » The Reach of War: Iraq & Afghanistan » MOST POPULAR - WORLD Naples Journal: of China Food and Drug Unit Sentenced to Death for Graft Memo From London: Should British Academics, or Rock Bands, Boycott Israel? North Iraq, Sunni Arabs Drive Out Kurds Rice Clashes With Russian on Kosovo and Missiles British Academics&#8217; Union Endorses Israel Boycott Desperate Iraqi Refugees Turn to Sex Trade in Syria A Quiet Revolution in Algeria: Gains by Women Malaysian Court Refuses to Recognize Woman&#8217;s Conversion to Christianity Grows as G.I.'s in Iraq Find Allies in Enemy Ranks Militants Widen Reach as Terror Seeps Out of Iraq Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Increased Strife Is Foreseen in Iraq if U.S. Troops Leave As Allies Turn Foe, Disillusion Rises in Some G.I.'s U.S. Rebuffs Germany on Greenhouse Gas Cuts China Sentences Former Drug Regulator to Death Strife in North Iraq as Sunni Arabs Drive Out Kurds U.S. and Iranian Officials Meet in Baghdad, but Talks Yield No Breakthroughs Shiite Cleric Appears in Iraq After Stay in Iran From BBC Radio BBC News, World Edition News From Der Spiegel Interview With Turkish Premier: 'If the EU Doesn't Want Us, They Should Say it Now' News From Council on Foreign Relations Interview: Revolutionary Guards Have Financial Interest in Keeping Iran Isolated Backgrounder: A National ID Program for Iraq? Interview: Putin Likely to Remain Powerful Figure After 2008 How Biofuels Could Starve the Poor Al Qaeda Strikes Back $15 million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Get world events at your door. Get The Times delivered at 50% off. Browse movie reviews from 1913. Get the latest business news Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. Buy, sell or research a car. Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/05/31/world/middleeast/31palestinians.html?ex=1338264000&en=330a931c3e4ddfb9&ei=5088&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss In to E-Mail or Save This Published: May 31, 2007 JERUSALEM, May 30 — It was 2 a.m. when masked gunmen raided Al Wafa Net in the Khan Yunis camp in Gaza where 17 young men were surfing the Internet. Skip to next paragraph Tyler Hicks/The Islamic militant posed this week in a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon, Ain al Hilwe. Hicks/The al Hilwe became a jihadi hotbed about five years ago. More than 25 men from there alone have gone to Iraq to fight, Hamas and Fatah officials say, never to be seen again. “The gunmen tied their hands, then forced them to stand at the stairs while they broke all the screens, and then the server and the television and the photocopier,” said the owner, Hamad, of the attack a few months ago. “Then they burned all 36 computers.” In recent months in Gaza, there have been similar attacks on music and video shops and pharmacies accused of selling Viagra, as well as on American and A standoff between the Lebanese Army and Islamists at a Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon has focused attention on a jihadist element taking root there as well as a radicalization in the Palestinian areas themselves. With the fragmentation of authority in Gaza, and its isolation, said a Gazan analyst, Taysir Mhaisin, “there is an increase of fundamentalism and the birth of groups believing in violence and practicing violence as a model created by bin Ladenism.” Mouin Rabbani, a Jordan-based analyst of Palestinian politics for the International Crisis Group, said, “There is a security vacuum that creates space for all kinds of new grouplets and forces.” Palestinian authority, both in the Palestinian areas and in refugee camps in Lebanon and beyond, used to lie in the hands of Fatah, the nationalist faction once led by . But after the entry of militant into politics, its 2006 electoral defeat of Fatah and the battles between them, jihadi freelancers with murky links are filling a vacuum in Gaza in Lebanon. Bush administration officials say they are increasingly concerned that Hamas and even more radical groups may be hijacking the Palestinian movement. The officials say they see no operational connection between what is happening in Palestinian camps in Lebanon and the deterioration in Gaza. But they say they do see an ideological link, with hopeless and marginalized young people turning to jihad because they believe that more secular or moderate options have failed them. In the squalid streets of the Ain al Hilwe refugee camp outside the southern Lebanese city of Sidon, people like Abu Ahmed Taha are bracing for a fight they have long been dreading. Militias in the camp of 47,000 roam the streets armed and ready; skirmishes break out sporadically and tensions have never been higher. For Mr. Taha, the real danger is that the fastest-growing militias are those of jihadis with wholly different aspirations from his. “There is a central problem and that is , and they are spreading,” Mr. Taha said, after an emergency meeting of religious and political leaders in the camp last week to calm tensions. “The Islamic awakening has been going on for 25 years now. But this, now, is going to become a huge problem for us.” Mr. Taha’s fears are remarkable because of who he is: not a secular campaigner or a Fatah apparatchik, but a senior member of Hamas. In the violent underground of the militias, men like him have become unlikely moderates, calling for calm and seeking to build bonds with the other militias and the government. Security officials and analysts say groups inspired by Al Qaeda have had a presence in the Palestinian camps in Lebanon for a decade, where they have thrived, taking advantage of the lawlessness and poor living conditions. In Lebanon, Palestinians are not allowed to own property and are limited in the kind of work they can do. They generally enjoy few rights. Ain al Hilwe, too, became a jihadi hotbed about five years ago. More than 25 men from there alone have gone to Iraq to fight, Hamas and Fatah officials say, never to be seen again. And jihadis there say more are ready to go. Mr. Taha notes that the new groups make it easy to join. Whereas it may take years of inculcation for a young man to become a full-fledged member of Hamas, he can become a member of the jihadi militias just by declaring fealty, Mr. Taha said. And rather than focusing on a political education, the militia members focus on a global fight coupled with religious sloganeering. Whether these jihadist groups are part of Al Qaeda or simply local bands of religious fanatics, Westerners and their institutions are now more clearly under attack throughout the region, including in Gaza, as seen in the bombing of the schools of two Fox News correspondents and of Alan Johnston, the BBC’s Gaza correspondent. A shadowy group called the Army of Islam claims that it kidnapped Mr. Johnston in March. Steven Erlanger reported from Jerusalem, and Hassan M. Fattah from Lebanon. Taghreed El-Khodary contributed reporting from Gaza, Helene Cooper from Washington, and Nada Bakri from Ain al Hilwe, Lebanon. 100 articles a month from The Archive - get it now with TimesSelect To find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. NEWS ANALYSIS; Reality Overtakes the Illusion of Unity in Gaza Israel Withdraws From Gaza as Truce Begins, Unsteadily Israel Adds Gaza Force but Forgoes Big Escalation Big Israeli Strike With Tanks Kills 8 Palestinians in Gaza Armament, Defense and Military Forces Gustibus: Don&#8217;t Point That Menu at My Child, Please Basic Training: Modern Marathoners Have Fewer Miles on Them Design That Solves Problems for the World&#8217;s Poor Big Disparities in Judging of Asylum Cases Fighting the Tide, a Few Restaurants Tilt to Tap Water Op-Ed Contributor: What I Think About Evolution Op-Ed Contributor: Physician, Upgrade Thyself Restaurants: Go, Eat, You Never Know Supreme Court Memo: Oral Dissents Give Ginsburg a New Voice on Court Comedy Business Turns to the Web Fault Harsh Methods in Interrogation Truth, Fiction and Lou Dobbs Lawmakers Push for Big Subsidies for Coal Process Google Deal Said to Bring U.S. Scrutiny Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria Giuliani Tempers Tough Image on Campaign Justices' Ruling Limits Suits on Pay Disparity What I Think About Evolution Some Hitherto Staunch G.O.P. Voters Souring on Iraq million dollar homes in Florida, Wyoming and California Also in Real Estate: U.S. Virgin Islands Home & Garden &#x00bb; Art & Design &#x00bb; Sarkozys: The French Kennedys? Phil Spector’s Long and Winding Road The Dirty Water Underground An Animated Film by Jeff Scher Artist Sets Up House(s) at the Grand Palais
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/asia/04cnd-china.html China Releases Climate Change Plan - Releases Climate Change Plan Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 BEIJING, June 4 — China today released its first comprehensive strategy on addressing , a plan that calls for improving energy efficiency and controlling greenhouse gas emissions but that rejects mandatory caps on emissions that could harm the country’s sizzling economy. Skip to next paragraph News Analysis: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes “Our general stance is that China will not commit to any quantified emissions reduction targets, but that does not mean we will not assume responsibilities in responding to climate change,” said Ma Kai, head of China’s powerful economic planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission. The 62-page report unveiled by Mr. Ma is dense with figures and programs on subjects like reforestation, public education and improving regulatory enforcement. But, in broad terms, the plan merely restated Beijing’s position that mandatory emissions caps are unfair to China and other developing countries that are still trying to modernize and improve their living standards. China has the world’s fastest-growing major economy and had been projected to surpass the United States by 2009 or 2010 as the world’s biggest emitter of greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide, which scientists say cause global warming. But China’s high-polluting economy is growing so rapidly that the International Energy Agency is now predicting the country could become the global emissions leader as soon as this year. The IEA also projected that if China does nothing to restrain emissions, it could produce more carbon dioxide during the next 25 years than all the world’s richest 26 countries combined — including the United States, Japan, Europe and others. This week, Chinese President is scheduled to join President and other world leaders in Germany at an expanded meeting of industrialized nations, in which global warming is on the agenda. President Bush has been regularly criticized for his lack of action over global warming, but last Friday he proposed a new negotiating framework between the 15 countries that produce the most greenhouse gas emissions. Each country would establish its own targets and plan to reduce emissions in the next 10 or 20 years, while working as a group to set a long-term global goal. At his news conference today, Mr. Ma applauded Mr. Bush’s proposal but said that it should complement, not replace, the existing framework, including the 1997 Kyoto Protocol sponsored by the Under the Kyoto Protocol, which took effect in 2005, industrialized nations are subjected to caps on certain industrial emissions, while developing countries, including China and India, are exempt. The Bush administration pulled out of the agreement because it did not include China or India. Mr. Ma used his news conference to restate China’s long-standing position that countries in the developed world, particularly the United States, needed to be the leaders on finding a climate change solution because those countries had generated the overwhelming majority of greenhouse emissions since the Industrial Revolution. He said China historically had produced only a small fraction of the world’s greenhouse gases and that its current per capita emissions equaled roughly one-fifth the rate in the United States. “The ramifications of limiting the development of developing countries would be even more serious than those from climate change,” Mr. Ma said. The centerpiece of China’s approach to controlling emissions is a plan initiated in 2005 that calls for a 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency by 2010. Mr. Ma noted that China had passed new laws on environmental protection and energy efficiency and that factories across the country were beginning to improve. He said fiscal and tax policies were being revised to reward clean industry and punish energy-intensive, high-polluting factories. But given China’s high annual rate of economic growth, the program would, at best, slow increases in emissions rather than reduce them. And it is far from certain that China will be able to meet the 20 percent goal. Under the plan, China should have netted a 4 percent reduction in 2006 in the amount of energy needed to generate each unit of gross domestic product. Instead, environmental officials announced earlier this year that the country had already failed to meet that initial goal. China is heavily dependent on coal, which currently accounts for roughly 68 percent of its energy. Under the climate change program, China plans a major expansion of nuclear power, as well as renewable energy sources. The plan calls for renewable energy to account for 10 percent of the country’s power supply by 2010. China is also in the midst of a nationwide reforestation program to help absorb greenhouse gases. Mr. Ma said China was strongly encouraging domestic research on new clean technologies but he also called on developed countries to transfer technology, and provide financial assistance, to help developing countries. The report also painted a brief, if alarming, picture of how global warming could change China, including rising sea levels, shrinking glaciers in Tibet, rising temperatures and the likelihood of expanding deserts. By 2020, annual temperatures could rise between 1.3 to 2.1 degrees Celsius from 2000. In addition, projections show that Chinese agricultural output could be reduced by 10 percent by 2030. to know more? 50% off home delivery find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Clean Power That Reaps a Whirlwind U.N. Council Hits Impasse Over Debate On Warming Bush Splits on Greenhouse Gases With Congress and State Officials Moving Faster on Refrigerant Chemicals the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky The North Pole Was Here by Andrew C. Revkin Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/middleeast/04surge.html Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal - Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal Scott Nelson/World Picture Network, for Charles White spoke with Iraqis about conditions in their neighborhood during a patrol of the Shaab district in Baghdad. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 BAGHDAD, June 3 — Three months after the start of the Baghdad security plan that has added thousands of American and Iraqi troops to the capital, they control fewer than one-third of the city’s neighborhoods, far short of the initial goal for the operation, according to some commanders and an internal military assessment. Skip to next paragraph The Reach of War Go to Complete Coverage » Casualties Since the Troop Increase American Soldiers on Patrol Neighborhoods like Ameel, Baya, Jihad and Furat remain violent. The American assessment, completed in late May, found that American and Iraqi forces were able to “protect the population” and “maintain physical influence over” only 146 of the 457 Baghdad neighborhoods. In the remaining 311 neighborhoods, troops have either not begun operations aimed at rooting out insurgents or still face “resistance,” according to the one-page assessment, which was provided to summarized reports from brigade and battalion commanders in Baghdad. The assessment offers the first comprehensive look at the progress of the effort to stabilize Baghdad with the heavy influx of additional troops. The last remaining American units in the troop increase are just now arriving. Violence has diminished in many areas, but it is especially chronic in mixed Shiite-Sunni neighborhoods in western Baghdad, several senior officers said. Over all, improvements have not yet been as widespread or lasting across Baghdad, they acknowledged. The operation “is at a difficult point right now, to be sure,” said Brig. Gen. Vincent K. Brooks, the deputy commander of the First Cavalry Division, which has responsibility for Baghdad. In an interview, he said that while military planners had expected to make greater gains by now, that has not been possible in large part because Iraqi police and army units, which were expected to handle basic security tasks, like manning checkpoints and conducting patrols, have not provided all the forces promised, and in some cases have performed poorly. That is forcing American commanders to conduct operations to remove insurgents from some areas multiple times. The heavily Shiite security forces have also repeatedly failed to intervene in some areas when fighters, who fled or laid low when the American troops arrived, resumed sectarian killings. “Until you have the ability to have a presence on the street by people who are seen as honest and who are not letting things come back in,” said General Brooks, referring to the Iraqi police units, “you can’t shift into another area and expect that place to stay the way it was.” When planners devised the Baghdad security plan late last year, they had assumed most Baghdad neighborhoods would be under control around July, according to a senior American military officer, so the emphasis could shift into restoring services and rebuilding the neighborhoods as the summer progressed. “We were way too optimistic,” said the officer, adding that September is now the goal for establishing basic security in most neighborhoods, the same month that Bush administration officials have said they plan to review the progress of the plan. Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, the senior American ground commander in , said in a brief interview that he never believed that a midsummer timetable for establishing security in Baghdad was realistic. “This was always going to be conditions-driven,” he said, noting that he always had expected it would take until fall to establish security across much of the city. But in order to meet that timetable, he added, the Iraqi Security Forces would have to make strides in coming months at maintaining security. “Ultimately the I.S.F., and specifically the police, are the key to holding an area,” he said. “We have to within the next four months move them more toward holding the areas we have cleared.” The last of the five combat brigades ordered to Iraq as reinforcements as part of the security plan will increase the number of American troops in the city to around 30,000, up from 21,000 before the operation, an American officer said. In addition, around 30,000 Iraqi Army and national police forces and another 21,000 policemen have been deployed in Baghdad. Many of the Iraqi units have turned up at less than full strength and other units have been redeployed from the capital, General Brooks said, leaving fewer than expected. American commanders have also had to send troops outside the capital, to deal with a sharp rise in violence in Diyala Province and to search for American soldiers kidnapped south of the capital. to know more? 50% off home delivery find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Bridge Bombing Increases Tensions in Northern Iraq Investigator Faults Colonel for Actions During Killings NEWS ANALYSIS; With Korea as Model, Bush Team Ponders Long Support Role in Iraq A Detour to Iowa Showcases &#8217;08 Democrats United States Armament and Defense Military Strategy and Tactics Security and Warning Systems the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/pages/world/index.html?partner=rssnyt International News - Goes to Europe in Wake of Putin’s Threat By JUDY DEMPSEY and GRAHAM BOWLEY President Bush departed for Europe where he will attend the summit of leading industrialized nations in Germany. The Russian president threatened to point missiles at Europe if the U.S. builds its missile defense system. China Releases Climate Change Plan The comprehensive strategy calls for improving energy efficiency and controlling greenhouse gas emissions but rejects mandatory caps on emissions. Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal By DAVID S. CLOUD and DAMIEN CAVE Three months after the start of the operation, U.S. and Iraqi troops control less than a third of the city. In Video, Insurgents Claim 2 Missing G.I.’s Are Dead The video did not provide proof of whether the two missing soldiers were alive or dead. Former Leader Talks of Return to Pakistan, and Maybe Power Benazir Bhutto, the former prime minister, is raising her profile again and positioning herself as savior of Pakistan. Fighting in Lebanese Camp Worsens By HASSAN M. FATTAH Two Lebanese soldiers and one militiaman were killed in fighting early this morning at a refugee camp in southern Lebanon, the army said. Liberian Boycotts Trial at The Hague Charles G. Taylor, once one of West Africa’s most feared men, dismissed his defense lawyer today and refused to appear at the opening of his long-awaited war crimes trial. Chinese Commemorate 18th Anniversary of Tiananmen Crackdown Gates Says Iranian Weapons Flowing Into Afghanistan News Analysis: Bush Climate Plan: Amid Nays, Some Maybes 14 More American Servicemen Are Killed in Iraq, Most of Them by Makeshift Bombs Hamas Fires Mortars After Palestinian Is Killed Opposition in Senegal Boycotts Vote Somalia’s Prime Minister Survives Suicide Attack; 7 Others Die Copter Crash Kills 20 in Sierra Leone 3 Dead and 300 Hurt in Quake in China Toothpaste Warning Is Rejected by China From the Magazine and Week in Review Iraq’s Curse: A Thirst for Final, Crushing Victory No faction has been able to secure absolute power, and that has only sharpened the hunger for it. Why They Booed Her in Mexico At the Miss Universe pageant, a dialogue with the neighbor up north. A Television Audition for a Part in and of Life What, exactly, is so off-putting about a reality show featuring three patients competing for a kidney from a terminally ill woman? Family members may be closer than they appear from half a world away. Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia U.S. Strikes Inside Somalia, Bombing Suspected Militant Hide-Out Boy Born to Rebel Hostage Shocks War-Weary Colombia 2 American Pilots Are Indicted in Brazilian Airliner Crash Gates Cautious About Gains in Afghanistan In a New India, an Old Industry Buoys Peasants Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Rev. John Macquarrie, 87, Scottish Theologian, Dies Fighting in Lebanese Refugee Camp Rages, and Spreads Fighting Worsens as Lebanese Army Surrounds Militants from the past 7 days enter keyword or date e.g. April 21, 2001 Dinner Disappears, and African Penguins Pay the Price Largely confined to a sprinkling of islands off South Africa’s tip, the African penguin, the continent’s only native penguin, is endangered. Surge in Adoptions Raises Concern in Ethiopia By JANE GROSS and WILL CONNORS Ethiopia has become a hot spot for international adoption, but the sudden popularity comes with risks, officials say. Audio Slide Show: From Ethiopia to Minnesota Jihadists Fill Palestinian Power Vacuum A standoff between the Lebanese Army and Islamists has focused attention on a jihadist element. A Search for Missing Soldiers Michael Kamber accompanied soldiers on a deadly search for missing comrades in Iraq. Photographs: 82nd Airborne Division The Flemish Sport of Finching Dan Bilefsky reports from a town in Belgium where winning birds are feted like feathered opera divas. Targeting Afghan Drug Trade James Risen reports that opium has helped revive the Taliban while corroding government credibility. Sabrina Tavernise reports on the migration of religious Turks from the heartland into secular cities. Weekly reports from the international staff Herald Tribune Columnists Today in TimesSelect » Ethanol Boom Won't Threaten Food Supply: Analysts China Won't Adopt Caps on Gas Emissions Guantanamo Judge Dismisses Terror Case Bush Opens Europe Trip on Jarring Note Militants, Troops Battle at Lebanon Camp Gunmen Kill 2 Soldiers At South Lebanon Camp Times Topics: Find News By Country Go to a Country Page Russia and the Post-Soviet Nations Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands Svalbard and Jan Mayen Times Topics in the News Pope Benedict XVI » Oil and Gasoline » Group of 8 » The Reach of War: Iraq & Afghanistan » MOST POPULAR - WORLD Fingers That Keep the Most Treasured Violins Fit Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal Former Leader Talks of Return to Pakistan, and Maybe Power Robben Island Journal: Dinner Disappears, and African Penguins Pay the Price In a New India, an Old Industry Buoys Peasants Judge Throws Out Charges in Guantánamo Prisoner Case Chinese Commemorate 18th Anniversary of Tiananmen Crackdown Rev. John Macquarrie, 87, Scottish Theologian, Dies Darfur Advocacy Group Undergoes a Shake-Up China Releases Climate Change Plan Go to Complete List » Commanders Say Push in Baghdad Is Short of Goal Iraqi Refugees, in Dire Straits, Turn to the Sex Trade in Syria China Sentences Former Drug Regulator to Death U.S. Not Pushing for Attack on Iran, Rice Says Strife in North Iraq as Sunni Arabs Drive Out Kurds Jihadist Groups Fill a Palestinian Power Vacuum U.S. and Iranian Officials Meet in Baghdad, but Talks Yield No Breakthroughs Number of Unidentified Bodies Found in Baghdad Rose Sharply in May Rice Plays Down Hawkish Talk About Iran 14 American Servicemen Are Killed in Iraq, Most of Them by Makeshift Bombs Go to Complete List » News From BBC Radio BBC News, World Edition News From Der Spiegel Interview With Turkish Premier: 'If the EU Doesn't Want Us, They Should Say it Now' News From Council on Foreign Relations Interview: Revolutionary Guards Have Financial Interest in Keeping Iran Isolated Backgrounder: A National ID Program for Iraq? Interview: Putin Likely to Remain Powerful Figure After 2008 How Biofuels Could Starve the Poor Al Qaeda Strikes Back Follow the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky The North Pole Was Here by Andrew C. Revkin Buy, sell or rent a home. Get the latest business news Looking for a job? Start your 30-day free trial of Times Reader today. What movie should you see? Arabian capital of culture and strategic hub forges ahead
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/asia/04bhutto.html Former Leader Talks of Return to Pakistan, and Maybe Power - Leader Talks of Return to Pakistan, and Maybe Power Joao Silva for Bhutto, the former Pakistani prime minister, has been in self-imposed exile for the last eight years. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 , June 3 — Former Prime Minister is stirring up Pakistani politics by quietly talking through intermediaries about a power-sharing deal with the president, Gen. , and suggesting in an interview that she could return to Pakistan before the end of the year. Threatened with arrest and dogged by corruption charges, Ms. Bhutto has sat out the last eight years in self-imposed exile in London and Dubai, while still leading what is arguably the country’s largest opposition party. In that time, she has seen General Musharraf, her former chief of military operations, seize power in a coup. She has watched the political turmoil build as Pakistanis grow restless under military rule, galvanized most recently by General Musharraf’s ouster of the chief Supreme Court justice, Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry. Her party, the Pakistan People’s Party, was heavily represented in a peaceful rally for Mr. Chaudhry in Abbottabad on Saturday, just weeks after more than 40 people died in Karachi in clashes related to his ouster. As Pakistan veers toward elections this year, General Musharraf has run into mounting opposition over his plans to seek a second term. Ms. Bhutto, 53, is raising her profile once again and positioning herself as savior of the nation, someone who can lead Pakistan back to democracy and provide a more reliable ally than General Musharraf, whose performance she criticized in fighting terrorism and extremism. Under General Musharraf, she noted, have used lawless areas of northern Pakistan to regroup and cause havoc in neighboring Afghanistan and within Pakistan itself. Yet Washington continues to support General Musharraf, she said, giving him billions of dollars in assistance since 2001. Despite his repeated insistence that Ms. Bhutto will not be allowed to participate in the elections, General Musharraf, according to aides and diplomats, has been conducting discreet negotiations for some kind of deal that would allow her to return and him to stay on as president. The corruption charges, which Ms. Bhutto says are politically motivated, might then be dropped. “General Musharraf says that he wouldn’t allow me back and I interpret that to mean that he would then arrest me and prevent me from having freedom of movement and freedom of speech and freedom of association,” Ms. Bhutto said in the interview, which took place recently at one of her homes outside Pakistan. “In any event I’d like to go back, and I’m looking at the window between September and December to do that.” To some, the prospect of Ms. Bhutto’s return confronts Pakistan with an unsavory choice, one it has faced before. Since its independence in 1947, this nation of 149 million that now has nuclear weapons has alternated between rule by generals who have fronted for a domineering military and civilian politicians who have won an enduring reputation for corruption. They have by turns worn out their welcomes. The country has had no fewer than four Constitutions, four military takeovers of government, and never experienced a constitutional transfer of power. General Musharraf seized power in a coup in October 1999, overthrowing Ms. Bhutto’s successor, , who also lives abroad to avoid prosecution on corruption charges. General Musharraf was at that time embraced by much of the population, wearied by turbulent years of short-lived, self-serving civilian governments. Yet today, Ms. Bhutto, part of a storied family dynasty, is probably the most popular politician with national appeal. If allowed to return, she may well be in a position to form the next government and serve again as prime minister, even if General Musharraf remains as president, if both agreed. The daughter of a politician executed by the military, educated at Harvard and Oxford and the first woman to serve as prime minister in the Islamic world, at age 35, Ms. Bhutto captivated supporters in the West as well as many Pakistanis in her early days. She was twice prime minister, from 1988 to 1990 and then from 1993 to 1996, when her personal and political fortunes unraveled. She left Pakistan eight years ago under a cloud. She was embroiled in a family feud when her brother, Murtaza, tried to claim leadership of the party their father founded, the Pakistan’s People’s Party. Her brother was shot dead in 1996. Ms. Bhutto’s husband, Asif Ali Zardari, was jailed on suspicion of the murder, though the case was never proved. Ms. Bhutto says the killing was a plot by Pakistani intelligence to divide and weaken her family. to know more? 50% off home delivery find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. As Musharraf's Woes Grow, Enter an Old Rival, Again Pakistan Police Detain Opposition Members Ahead of Protests Ghulam Ishaq Khan, 91, Former President of Pakistan Pakistani Politician Taken Into Custody the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Forever Fab Beatles Commemorative Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
http://www.nytimes.com/2007/06/04/world/middleeast/04cnd-lebanon.html Fighting in Lebanese Camp Worsens - in Lebanese Camp Worsens New clashes sparked fears that a conflict in the Nahr al Bared camp outside Tripoli may be spreading. Sign In to E-Mail or Save This Published: June 4, 2007 , June 4—Two Lebanese soldiers and two militants were killed in fighting in Ain al Hilwe refugee camp in southern Lebanon early today, capping a night of violence in both northern and southern Lebanon. Skip to next paragraph in the north at Nahr al Bared spread to Ain al Hilwe. The clashes sparked fears that a conflict in the Nahr al Bared camp on the outskirts of this northern Lebanese town may be spreading. Militants in the northern camp have been besieged by the army for more than two weeks. In a series of skirmishes that began Sunday afternoon, fighters of the Islamist group Jund al Sham opened fire on Lebanese army soldiers. The firefight that followed left numerous houses inside the camp ablaze and ultimately resulted in the death of the four men, military officials said. Meanwhile, 60 miles north at the Nahr al Bared camp, Lebanese troops continued their offensive against another militant group, Fatah al Islam, directing machine gun fire and artillery shelling into the camp for much of Sunday and early today. At least 114 people have been killed in the siege of the camp, which began when security men raided an apartment in Tripoli seeking bank robbers. A tenuous calm set in over both camps this afternoon as Palestinian and religious leaders sought to calm tempers in Ain al Hilwe, the southern camp, and to negotiate an end to the 16 days of violence at Nahr al Bared. Both camps are home to tens of thousands of Palestinian refugees displaced in the successive wars between Israel and its Arab neighbors. Palestinian factions held talks with the Lebanese army command in Sidon this morning, as heavily armed Jund al-Sham fighters agreed to cede their positions to militiamen from other Islamist groups at Ain al Hilwe, where more than 47,000 refugees live. Despite sporadic gunfire in Nahr al Bared, aid agencies worked to get water and food into the camp today. Red Cross officials said a few civilians had managed to escape the camp, while the aid agency warned that conditions inside were worsening significantly, and made an appeal for new funds to assist refugees who have escaped the camp. Thousands of refugees have escaped over the past two weeks, but aid groups estimate that about 6,000 residents remain trapped inside in the crossfire. Reporters have been banned from the camp and have been pushed back out of sight of the fighting, making it difficult to confirm reports from either side. The army continued to reinforce its positions around the camp today, and brought in armor, troops and supplies, possibly in preparation for another push against Fatah al-Islam. Nada Bakri contributed reporting from Tripoli, Lebanon. to know more? 50% off home delivery find reference information about the words used in this article, double-click on any word, phrase or name. A new window will open with a dictionary definition or encyclopedia entry. Fighting Worsens as Lebanese Army Surrounds Militants 18 Dead in Lebanon as Army and Militants Clash Mixed Reaction in Lebanon to U.N. Assassination Tribunal U.N. Approves Court to Prosecute Hariri Killing the Frugal Traveler on his 12-week cross-country journey See how the trip began What did he think of the Armuchee Bluegrass Festival? Tell him where to go in Tennessee and Kentucky Martha Graham and Dancers - 1990 Media & Advertising &#x00bb; The Lede: Paris Hilton Reports to Prison ‘Grey Gardens’ Provides the Role of a Life Home Fires: Iraq Veterans Return All of a Sudden, the Weather Is Controversial
